NYT CEO addresses BBC sex abuse scandal | Mark Thompson — the incoming president and CEO of The New York Times Company who is currently facing questions about what he knew of the BBC’s Jimmy Savile sexual abuse investigation — gave an interview to the paper Tuesday saying that "there is nothing to suggest that I acted inappropriately in the handling of this matter."  <paragraph>  Earlier on Tuesday, The New York Times’ public editor Margaret Sullivan  <hyperlink>  called for the publication to “thoroughly” and aggressively report the story surrounding the BBC “Newsnight” program about Savile that was killed last year while Thompson served as BBC director general. “The Times might start by publishing an in-depth interview with Mr. Thompson exploring what exactly he knew, and when, about what happened at the BBC,” she wrote.  <paragraph>  Thompson, who is scheduled to start his new job on Nov. 12, sat down for an interview at the Times building Tuesday <hyperlink>  with reporters Christine Haughney and David Carr and said he was not involved in canceling the investigation. <paragraph>  “I talked to senior management in BBC News and reported the conversation I had at the party and asked was there a problem,” he told the Times, noting that he was informed the story was dropped “for journalistic reasons.” <paragraph> “There is nothing to suggest that I acted inappropriately in the handling of this matter. I did not impede or stop the ‘Newsnight’ investigation, nor have I done anything else that could be construed as untoward or unreasonable,” he added. <paragraph> In her post, Sullivan asked, “How likely is it that he knew nothing? A director general of a giant media company is something like a newspaper’s publisher. Would a publisher be very likely to know if an investigation of one of its own people on sexual abuse charges had been killed? The answer to that is not as easy as it sounds.” <paragraph> Meanwhile, on Wednesday, Reuters interviewed Thompson about the Times' support of him in the wake of the scandal.   <paragraph>  “I do not believe there is anything that I've done in relation to this matter which should in anyway impinge on my abilities to fully discharge the responsibilities I'll have at the New York Times," he told Reuters <hyperlink> .  "All of my colleagues here in the management team of the New York Times have been very supportive on this and more broadly as I prepare to take on the job," he said. "I've been very well supported as the incoming CEO of this company." <paragraph>  As for Thompson’s other public statements on the investigation, on Oct. 13 he told the Times <hyperlink> , "I was not notified or briefed about the Newsnight investigation, nor was I involved in any way in the decision not to complete and air the investigation.” Thompson added in his statement that “during my time as director general of the BBC, I never heard any allegations or received any complaints about Jimmy Savile." But, as The Guardian noted <hyperlink> , Thompson’s spokesman told the London-based Times that the first time the former BBC director general heard about the investigation was at a party in late 2011 from a journalist. The journalist said words to the effect that 'You must be worried about the Newsnight investigation,’” the spokesman said, according to the Guardian. "This was the first that Mark had heard about the investigation. The journalist did not go into what Newsnight was investigating. Mark did not respond at the party but did mention the conversation to senior colleagues in BBC News and asked if there was a problem with the investigation. He was told that Newsnight had begun an investigation into Savile but had decided to drop it for journalistic reasons.” <paragraph>   The spokesman told the Guardian there was “no contradiction” between the two statements. "Mark told the New York Times he was not briefed on the Newsnight investigation. He wasn't. As he made clear yesterday he was only made aware of the allegations relating to Jimmy Savile when ITV published pre-broadcast publicity regarding their documentary in recent weeks," the spokesman said. <paragraph> Thompson was at the BBC from 2004 to Sept. 2012.  