Post ombudsman on Brauchli and Baron | Washington Post ombudsman Patrick Pexton on Friday reflected on the end of Marcus Brauchli's reign as executive editor and the future of the paper under Martin Baron. <paragraph> Pexton wrote in his column, "A new era — and editor — for The Post  <hyperlink> ," that Brauchli had the "misfortune" of leading the Post during the last four years when "there has been no harder time to lead a major national or metropolitan newspaper." <paragraph> "What did Brauchli accomplish, and where does his departure leave the newsroom, which will now go through more turmoil and perhaps more cuts?" Pexton asked. "And what will the change mean for readers and for The Post, a publication important to the functioning of American democracy?" <paragraph> Brauchli's "most important legacy," Pexton wrote, is that he "he and his team brought The Post fully into the digital era." <paragraph> He has an "understated style of leadership that many liked," but Pexton said reporters and editors told him they wanted "more engagement" and a newsroom leader who could "drive the newsroom, pushing the staff to perform on big news stories, a harder-hitting journalist — not in an overbearing sense but in a determined, fire-in-the-belly, newshound kind of way." <paragraph> That wasn't the only newsroom complaint Pexton heard. The Post's Local staff "felt neglected until around the last year of Brauchli's tenure," many in the newsroom thought the Style section "was allowed to lose its focus and distinctive voice" and some Post veterans said Brauchli "never really connected or reached out to them, nor tapped their institutional knowledge." <paragraph>  "Now the newsroom is worried about more upheaval, just when many reporters and editors felt things were settling down. They worry about their jobs and whether Baron, who downsized the Globe’s newsroom, is being brought in to do more of the same," he wrote. <paragraph>  Post publisher Katharine Weymouth told Pexton she does not intend for any “change in mission and no draconian cuts.” <paragraph> "The key point for The Post, for newcomer Baron and for the newsroom to remember at this difficult time is that the mission of this paper, even amid all the technological and financial challenges, is larger than any individual. That mission must be preserved," Pexton wrote. "The Post’s brand, identity and purpose is to keep governments — national and local — honest and to point out when they’re not, to chronicle our age and the people in the capital region who define it, to tell a good sports story and to have some fun doing all of the above." 