Ingraham, Todd debate Libya coverage | Conservative radio host Laura Ingraham and NBC’s Chuck Todd on Tuesday debated whether or not the White House press corps has pushed the Obama administration hard enough for answers to the violence in Libya. <paragraph>  Ingraham criticized the press for what she called its lack of “outcry” and “desire” to get to the bottom of the situation in Benghazi. <paragraph>  “Four Americans are dead, the president has failed to do a press conference on this,” Ingraham said on her radio show. “…You’re in that briefing room every day, and they send out Jay Carney every day, and meanwhile, the president has given interviews to ‘The Michael Yo! Show,’ has spent time with ‘The View,’ has spent time in Vegas, has spent time on the trail doing all these Hollywood events, and he does not have time to do a full-blown press conference on what happened when, and why the false narrative was sold when four Americans are dead.” <paragraph>  “And my question to you as one of the critical reporters — and we look to you, we really look to you for this — why, where is the outcry from the White House press corps and the desire to answer these questions?” Ingraham said. <paragraph>   “There is a ton of desire,” Todd replied, adding that “the fact that the president hasn’t sat down with a member of the White House press corps for any extended interview for over a year is their business. It’s certainly something that is not popular in the White House press room, if you will. But at the end of the day, media whining about access gets us, you know, it’s not so popular on either side.” <paragraph>  odd then addressed the congressional hearing on Libya, saying, “Let’s not pretend both sides aren’t playing a little politics here.” <paragraph>  “You think the intention was 100 percent to get to the bottom of this, or do you think there was some politics involved?” he asked. <paragraph>  “Well, this is what I will say to you,” Ingraham said. “Since apparently the White House press corps cannot get answers from this administration, I think the Republicans on Capitol Hill were figuring maybe they can get some answers.” <paragraph>   “Well, they have subpoena power, I don’t,” Todd jumped in. <paragraph>  You don’t have subpoena power, but you’re in that White House press briefing every day,” Ingraham said. <paragraph>   “Look, I know beating up on us is popular and it’s easy to do, but there’s only so much. We ask these questions every single day,” Todd said. <paragraph>  The idea that the press isn’t covering what happened in Libya is “unfair,” Todd told Ingraham. After all, he said, the reason the public finally has heard a play-by-play from the State Dept. is because of the press corps’ "browbeating." <paragraph>  “The fact is, the reason why we finally got a full tick-tock from the State Dept. is that every single day a bunch of us were calling to the State Dept., 'how come we don’t have a tick-tock? What happened here? What is your version? Nobody seems to understand, nobody seems to be able to explain it.' It takes a lot of browbeating,” he said. <paragraph>     