ABC's Tapper on 'The Outpost,' Petraeus |  <video>  <paragraph> ABC’s Jake Tapper stopped by POLITICO LIVE on Wednesday to discuss his new book “The Outpost." <paragraph> Tapper, ABC News’ senior White House correspondent, said he was watching the news in 2009, just after his son was born, when he caught a report about an “unbelievable attack” on Combat Outpost Keating. <paragraph>  They faced down 400 Taliban,” he said. “And it was weird because I was holding my son and hearing about eight other sons being taken from this world. And it became a mystery that I wanted to solve — why would anybody put a base there, who were these guys, what’s it like to be in such a precarious and vulnerable place facing this onslaught from Taliban fighters? And it became a real mission and cause for me, and it became this book three years later.” <paragraph>  Tapper also addressed the David Petraeus scandal, telling POLITICO he didn’t hear any rumblings of an affair while he was reporting. “These guys were a world away,” Tapper. <paragraph> “To think about Petraeus bringing Paula Broadwell with him to Afghanistan in the context of what these guys went through in my book — it’s just unbelievable,” he said. “And it also makes me offended because, why was he bringing a biographer with him? Why wasn’t he bringing somebody to write this book, my book, telling the story of the troops?” <paragraph> “It’s just so narcissistic,” Tapper said. <paragraph> While Tapper noted he had covered the war in Afghanistan before taking on the project, “it was from the comfort of the North Lawn of the White House.” <paragraph> “It was debating troop levels, 10,000, 40,000, you know, and those numbers, in retrospect, we bat them around in this town. It’s kind of cold,” he said. <paragraph>  “This book focuses on a battle in which there are eight guys who are killed,” he added. “And I could rattle off their names right now. Behind every one of those guys there’s a grieving mom or widow or brother or sister, or a child who will never know their dad. Those numbers now mean much more to me than 40,000, 30,000, and I think I have a much richer understanding of war.”  