DOJ: No role for courts in Fast and Furious contempt fight |  <paragraph>  The federal courts have no authority to intervene in the dispute that led to President Barack Obama asserting executive privilege for the first time in the context of a Congressional inquiry, the Justice Department argued in a legal brief filed Monday night.  <paragraph>  Soon after that assertion of privilege in June, the House voted to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress for failing to turn over documents related to a House probe of the Fast and Furious gunrunning scandal.  <paragraph>  The Justice Department brief (posted   <hyperlink> here) argues that the executive branch's decision not to comply with such subpoenas or portions thereof cannot be second-guessed or rejected by the judiciary—a sweeping claim of executive power that aligns the Obama administration with the stance President George W. Bush's administration took in a similar dispute in 2008.  <paragraph>  "An assumption of jurisdiction here would short-circuit the constitutional design and threaten to alter permanently the relationship among the Branches," Justice Department lawyers contend in the 46-page brief, arguing that Congress has many other avenues open to it to try to force compliance with the subpoena. "Filing suit is far easier than mustering the votes necessary to cut appropriations, defeat legislation, or override a veto, and is far less visible to constituents. A decision allowing the case to proceed would thus greatly diminish the political costs of inter-Branch confrontation and reduce the incentive for Congress to evaluate and prioritize the demands of its myriad committees."  <paragraph>  The brief notes at length the extensive back-and-forth between the Justice Department and the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee over documents related to the panel's probe of Operation Fast and Furious, a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives operation that reportedly allowed as many as 2000 firearms to flow from legal U.S. gun dealers to narcotraffickers in Mexico.  <paragraph>  One of the resolutions of contempt voted against Holder in June authorized the filing of a lawsuit to enforce the committee's subpoena. The panel   <hyperlink> filed such a suit in July in U.S. District Court in Washington.  <paragraph>  "This Court should not permit the Committee to circumvent this historical—and in this case, fruitful—process of negotiation and accommodation by seeking resolution of this inherently political dispute in federal court," the Justice Department argues in the new brief.  <paragraph>  The brief asserts that stepping into the Fast and Furious subpoena dispute would start down a slippery slope that could upend separation of powers by involving the courts in a wide array of disagreements between Congress and the Executive Branch.  <paragraph>  "If a committee of Congress could sue the Executive Branch on the basis of a claimed loss of power in a political dispute, then there would be little question that the President or subordinate officials of the Executive Branch would be entitled to bring political disputes with Congress into the judicial forum....Thus, the Judiciary would become the final arbiter of any political dispute between the Branches—or even one between officials of the same Branch—a result that is contrary to our constitutional scheme," the Justice Department lawyers write.  <paragraph>  "A court would have to weigh the relative interests of the political Branches and decide which interest prevails, either by elevating one over the other on a categorical basis or by enmeshing the court in the minutiae of the dispute between the Branches. Such an unmoored weighing of the interests of the political Branches is one the courts are ill-equipped to make," the brief continues.  <paragraph>  The brief also notes repeatedly that thousands of documents related to the gun operation itself have been turned over to Congress. The present dispute pertains to documents that indicate how the Justice Department and others in the federal government responded to Congressional and media inquiries about the matter.  <paragraph>  Unsurprisingly, the Justice Department brief argues that legal precedent favors the courts staying out of such fights. However, the brief acknowledges that just four years ago, U.S. District Court Judge John Bates ruled that the courts did have authority to force Bush White House officials, including White House Counsel Harriet Miers, to respond to subpoenas from a House committee investigating the firing of eight U.S. Attorneys. <paragraph>  The Miers decision "went down the wrong path, and there have now been more congressional suits challenging executive privilege in the past five years (two) than in the previous 220 years combined. This Court should reject the rash call for judicial intervention here, lest the constitutionally-sanctioned and time-honored process of negotiation and accommodation itself becomes a thing of the past," the Justice Department lawyers argue.  <paragraph>  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit stayed Bates's ruling pending an appeal, but the case was resolved without a definitive appellate ruling in the early weeks of the Obama administration. <paragraph>  The committee's suit against Holder has been assigned to U.S. District Court Judge Amy Berman Jackson, who was appointed to the bench by Obama last year. Due to the briefing schedule in the case, no ruling is expected until well after the election.