The next great depression? |   <paragraph>  If the world slides into a global depression over the next year, consider yourself forewarned by the Wall Street Journal. Yesterday's edition was packed with so many grim headlines that one could be forgiven for believing that we could be seeing cash-filled wheelbarrows by the end of the summer.  <paragraph>  In what could have been called the Black Friday issue, the Journal reported on: - an Asian slowdown brought on by European woes - India's economy sputtering to a nine-year low - a continued economic slowdown in China - weakness coming out of South Korea and Australia - a growing banking crisis in Spain - a deepening of Greece's economic collapse - increased economic problems across Africa - the desperate plea of European bankers for a unified rescue fund   <paragraph>  Yet another WSJ story reported that President Obama was aggressively weighing in on the European debt crisis, urging EU leaders to make tough choices to prevent the kind of crisis that propelled him into the White House four years ago. The Journal wrote of a growing concern in the White House that a similar crisis could be responsible for his defeat four years after the September 15th meltdown.  <paragraph>  Adding to the grimness of Friday's morning edition was a jobs report that landed on Wall Street with a thud at 8:30 a.m.. Yesterday's depressing jobs report was terrible news for the president and the millions of Americans who are still struggling to find a job.  <paragraph>  The economic data released this week was not much better for some of the U.S.'s top employers.  <paragraph>  The screaming headline "Business Braces for Europe's Worst" was splashed across the top of the Journal's Marketplace section. Companies like McDonald's, Carnival and Goodrich are sure to see their earnings hit hard by a sagging European economy.  <paragraph>  That is bad news for U.S. workers and for a president who has five months left to prove that his policies have reversed an economic slide that he inherited in 2008. Chicago's argument keeps getting tougher to make every month, with the backdrop of an economy that seems to be growing weaker by the day.