Parsing Obama on Guantanamo | <paragraph>  What exactly did President Barack Obama mean when he suggested Thursday that Congress needs to do more to establish a "legal architecture" to govern aspects of the war on terror?  <paragraph>  "One thing we have got to do is put a legal architecture in place and we need congressional help do that to make sure that not only am I reined in, but any president's reigned in, in terms of some of the decisions that we’re making," Obama told Jon Stewart on Comedy Central's "Daily Show."  <paragraph>  Obama made the comment just after he mentioned Guantanamo, so it seemed he may have been referring to some type of legislation to regulate the detention of war on terror prisoners. The remark echoed something the president said more than three years ago, in   <hyperlink> his only speech he devoted to the issue as president.  <paragraph>  "If and when we determine that the United States must hold individuals to keep them from carrying out an act of war, we will do so within a system that involves judicial and congressional oversight.  And so, going forward, my administration will work with Congress to develop an appropriate legal regime so that our efforts are consistent with our values and our Constitution," Obama said in May 2009.  <paragraph>  If that's what the president was talking about Thursday, it's a bit perplexing because the Obama administration  <hyperlink> decided later in 2009 not to pursue such legislation, even though   <hyperlink> officials determined that 48 of the men at Gitmo needed to be held indefinitely without trial.  <paragraph>  In August 2010,  <hyperlink> Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) filed a bill that would have had Congress set some rules for the process of long-term detention of alleged terrorists. The administration, which had been   <hyperlink> negotiating intensely with Graham months earlier, didn't take a position on the measure, which essentially went nowhere.  <paragraph>  Last year, Congress passed a bill that appeared to give its general endorsement to the procedures the courts have worked out to review the detention of Guantanamo prisoners. Obama initially   <hyperlink> threatened to veto that measure, but   <hyperlink> relented after it was watered down. He also signed that and several other measures that effectively made it impossible for him to carry through on his plan to close Guantanamo.  <paragraph>  Throughout the discussions last year, administration officials signaled that they would have preferred Congress not dig into the issue. However, Obama may have been alluding to hopes some in the administration had early in their talks with Graham that a "grand bargain" might have been possible that would have combined closing Guantanamo with passing detention-related legislation. Those hopes were well dashed by last year and officials seemed uninterested in engaging on detailed detention-related legislation with Congress so stridently opposed to closing Guantanamo and bringing some of its prisoners to the U.S.  <paragraph>  It's conceivable Obama's comment to Stewart was about legislation to give a legal imprimatur to surveillance President George W. Bush untilaterally authorized. But that doesn't make a great deal of sense. Congress passed such legislation in 2008, while Obama was still a senator. Obama's Thursday comments were clearly directed at some kind of unfinished business with Congress.  <paragraph>  It's also possible the president was referring to legislation to regulate the process by which the U.S. authorizes the use of lethal force against individual terrorists abroad, particularly Americans. But the administration has insisted that the internal, secret process the White House, Defense Department and Central Intelligence Agency use to make those kinds of decisions is adequate to the task and has resisted efforts to involve the courts. In fact, Obama suggested later in the interview that a "legal structure and safeguards" were in place on that front. <paragraph>  The White House didn't immediately respond to a query late Thursday seeking more detail about what kind of "legal architecture" Obama wants Congress to put in place relating to terrorism.  <paragraph>  Here's an extended excerpt of the 'Daily Show" exchange: “Obama: There are some things that we haven't gotten done. I still want to close Guantanamo. We haven’t been able to get that through Congress. one thing we have got to do is put a legal architecture in place and we need congressional help do that to make sure that not only am I reined in but any president's reined in in terms of some of the decisions that we’re making. There are tough tradeoffs. Sometimes there's bad folks on the other side of the world and you have to make a call and it's not optimal but when you look at our track record what we've been able to do is to say we ended the war in Iraq, we're winding down the war in Afghanistan, we've gone after Al Qaeda and its leadership. it's true Al Qaeda's still active, at least sort of remnants of it, are staging in other parts of the Middle East and North Africa. Sometimes you have to make tough calls but you can do so in a way that's consistent with international and American law. Stewart: Within that as it ratchets down, i think people have been surprised to see the strength of the Bush-era warrantless wire-tapping laws and those types of things not also be lessened. The strictures that he put in place tthat people might have thought were government overreach and that maybe they had the mind you would perhaps tone down, you haven't. Obama: Well, the truth is we actually have modified them and built a legal structure and safeguards that are in place. That weren't there before on a whole range of issues Now, they're not real sexy issues... Stewart: You don’t know what I find sexy.”