Court overturns conviction of bin Laden driver |  <paragraph>  A federal appeals court significantly narrowed the power of the military commissions at Guantanamo Bay by ruling Tuesday that those tribunals have no authority to try prisoners for providing assistance to terrorist organizations before 2006. <paragraph>  The ruling from a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit overturned the military commission conviction of Salim Hamdan, a Yemeni man who served as a driver to Al Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden. Hamdan was transferred to Yemen in 2008 and released, but the court's ruling could affect other military commission cases. <paragraph>  The judges ruled that material support of terrorism, a common terrorism-related charge in U.S. civilian criminal courts, is not a war crime under international law and therefore is beyond the scope of what military commissions were permitted to do as originally constituted. <paragraph>  "When Hamdan committed the conduct in question, the international law of war proscribed a variety of war crimes, including forms of terrorism. At that time, however, the international law of war did not proscribe material support for terrorism as a war crime. Indeed, the Executive Branch acknowledges that the international law of war did not – and still does not – identify material support for terrorism as a war crime. Therefore, the relevant statute at the time of Hamdan’s conduct....did not proscribe material support for terrorism as a war crime," Judge Brett Kavanuagh wrote. (The opinion is posted   <hyperlink> here.)  <paragraph>  In a footnote, Kavanaugh noted that the ruling would not require Hamdan's release, since he could be detained under the law of war. (Presumably, this was a note about the opinion's application to others still at Guantanamo Bay.) The judge also noted that Hamdan could be charged for post-2006 material support in a military commission.  <paragraph>  There is little dispute that Hamdan could have been charged with material support in front of a civilian U.S. court, but such trials are oridnarily held only on U.S. soil and Congress has now essentially forbidden bringing current Guantanamo prisoners to the U.S. The court's ruling Tuesday leaves open the government's ability to use military commissions to charge individuals with established war crimes, such as intentional killing of non-combatants.  <paragraph>  Judges David Sentelle and Douglas Ginsburg joined in the vast majority of Kavanaugh's opinion. Ginsburg wrote a separate opinion saying that he would prefer to rule that the case was moot since Hamdan was returned to Yemen. However, Ginsburg agreed with the other judges that under current Supreme Court precedent, which lower courts are bound to follow, the case was not moot.  <paragraph>  Several other prisoners at Guantanamo have been convicted of material support, though the only one charged solely with that offense appears to be Australian David Hicks. He pled guilty in 2007 and was transferred to Australia, where he was released a few months later.  <paragraph>  Kavanaugh was appointed to the D.C. Circuit by President George W. Bush. Sentelle and Ginsburg are both appointees of President Ronald Reagan.  <paragraph>  Of course, they may not have the final word on the matter. The Justice Department could ask the full bench of the D.C. Circuit to hear the case or ask the Supreme Court to take it up.  <paragraph>  A Justice Department spokesman had no immediate comment.