Iran unrest could undercut Romney critique |  <paragraph>  Reports of violent clashes in Iran due to the precipitous drop in value of the country's currency could upset GOP presidential candidate Mitt Romney's efforts to paint President Barack Obama's Iran policy as ineffectual.  <paragraph>  Tehran's central bazaar was reported to have been closed Wednesday and riot police were patrolling the streets as public and merchant frustration boiled over, apparently directed at economic woes caused by international sanctions intensified by the Obama Administration. At least one protest against Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmedinejad Wednesday was broken up by tear gas, news agencies reported.  <paragraph>  "Photos showed riot police blocking a street with the charred hulks of a garbage can and a motorcycle that had been set on fire. Smoke was rising from the area in central Tehran near the main bazaar,"  <hyperlink> the Associated Press reported. <paragraph>  "Hundreds of police in anti-riot gear stormed the currency exchange district of Ferdowsi, arresting illegal money changers and ordering licensed exchange bureaux and other shops closed, witnesses told"   <hyperlink> Agence France Presse.  <paragraph>  The Iranian rial's value against the dollar declined by about a third in the past week.  <paragraph>  Romney has argued that he would have moved earlier with tougher sanctions against Tehran.  <paragraph>  The new unrest doesn't indicate that the sanctions are achieving their goal of persuading the Iranians to abandon the nuclear weapons program they insist they're not pursuing. And barring some dramatic change in the coming days, Romney can continue to argue that the administration was slow to embrace tougher sanctions and spent too much time pursuing a rapprochement with Tehran. In addition, scenes of chaos abroad underscore Romney's overall argument that Obama has failed to handle foreign policy capably and that the dangerous world threatens to crash in on the U.S.  <paragraph>  That said, the current clashes and tear gas in the streets are disarming to Romney because they allow Obama to respond to any Iran-related criticism by observing that the sanctions are causing a level of tumult in Iran that could plausibly lead to a change in the nuclear policy.  <paragraph>  Part of the Oct. 16 Obama-Romney debate in New York and all of the Oct. 22 debate in Florida are expected to be devoted to foreign policy issues.