Does Romney have tax shelters? | <paragraph>  A tax shelter, it seems, is in the eye of the beholder.  <paragraph>  In the wake of Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney's disclosure Friday of his tax 2011 returns, President Barack Obama's campaign charged that the returns show Romney is dodging some of his tax obligations.  <paragraph>  "His release also confirmed what we already knew, which is that he pays a lower rate than most middle-class families because of a set of complex loopholes and tax shelters, and raised more questions than provided answers," Obama campaign spokeswoman Jen Psaki said Saturday.  <paragraph>  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) also seemed to advance the shelter claim, saying, "Once again, we see Mitt Romney is out of touch with middle class families, who don’t have the luxury of accounting wizards and foreign tax shelters."  <paragraph>  Romney's campaign issued a statement Friday in which former IRS commissioner Fred Goldberg reissued his previous opinion that not only were Romney's returns on the up-and-up, but that there was no evidence he'd made any particular effort to lower his tax burden. "There is no indication or suggestion of any tax-motivated or aggressive tax planning activities," Goldberg said.  <paragraph>  I asked the Obama campaign how the returns show Romney has tax shelters. A spokesman sent a few news clippings that use that term, including   <hyperlink> a news story in The Washington Post and   <hyperlink> an editorial in The New York Times.  <paragraph>  Asked if Romney considers any of the investments to be "tax shelters," a spokesman replied: "These funds are all registered with the IRS and report all income to investors and the IRS. The Romney's are taxed on the income from these investments by the blind trust  the same way they would be if the shares were held in the US. No taxes are evaded or reduced."  <paragraph>  Part of the disagreement comes down to issues around the definition of "tax shelters." There are plenty of ways to limit or eliminate tax on certain income. Many, like investing in state or municipal bonds, are so commonplace that it would be hard to call them shelters. Other techniques are still legal but more obscure. And still others are of dubious legality, consisting of transactions that have little or no economic benefit but huge tax benefits. <paragraph>  Most of the buzzwords that make for good TV ads, about investments in the Cayman Islands and Luxembourg, relate to a fairly standard practice of placing overseas U.S.-run investment funds with multiple foreign owners so that foreign investors aren't subject to U.S. taxes. Those foreigners might well dodge taxes, legally or illegally, on that income, but a U.S. citizen is still required to report and pay taxes on worldwide income.  <paragraph>  However,  <hyperlink> The Wall Street Journal reported in January about one tactic Romney (or his blind trust trustee) uses that appears to have the benefit of preventing immediate taxation of some investment income in his unusually large individual retirement account. Some of Romney's investments in that account, which are parked offshore, would be subject to an immediate 35 percent U.S. tax on earnings if kept here.  <paragraph>  However, the Romney campaign countered to the Journal that those investments were not evading U.S. taxes, but preserving the tax-deferred nature of IRAs in which millions of Americans invest. "Governor Romney’s IRA is tax deferred, just like the IRA’s of every other American.  Its investments are in compliance with rules created to keep it tax deferred, just like it was intended to be," a spokesman told the newspaper.