In pitches to troops, presidential candidates dodge and weave |  <paragraph>  In lobbying U.S. military personnel for their votes, GOP presidential candidate Mitt Romney sounds quite different than he did in the most recent debate, while President Barack Obama doesn't seem to want to square up with a key critique of his policy in Afghanistan.  <paragraph>  The Obama and Romney campaigns recently answered questions submitted in writing by Stars and Stripes about issues the independent, partially-federally-funded newspaper considered most of concern to soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines, as well as veterans.  <paragraph>  The   <hyperlink> Romney camp's answer to Stars and Stripes on Afghanistan is striking for its contrast with what the GOP hopeful said at the foreign policy debate on Monday and in a foreign policy speech earlier this month. In the statement released to the military audience, Romney branded Obama's decision to announce a withdrawal from Afghanistan in 2014 as "an enormous mistake."  <paragraph>  "Gov. Romney believes it was an enormous mistake to communicate a withdrawal to our enemies as it makes our transition mission more difficult," the statement sent to Stars and Stripes said. <paragraph>  If Romney believes that was an "enormous" error, it's odd he didn't mention it during the debate or during his speech at the Virginia Military Institute, where he alluded in vague terms to Obama decisions some people disagree with and warned against a politically-timed retreat, all while endorsing the 2014 timetable.  <paragraph>  In the debate, Romney seemed to drop his earlier talk of a 2014 withdrawal being dependent on conditions on the ground. "We'll make sure we bring our troops out by the end of 2014....We're going to be able to make that transition by the end of 2014. So our troops will come home at that point," Romney said, sounding as certain of an on-time withdrawal as Vice President Joe Biden did in his debate and more certain than Obama does, aside from this weekend off the reservation.  <paragraph>  The   <hyperlink> Obama camp's answers to Stars and Stripes also included their share of sophistry, dodging a key question about the public pull-out timetable: "Does the plan give enemy fighters an incentive to lie in wait until the U.S. leaves?" None of the sentences the Obama team provided responds directly to that point. There's also no direct response to whether the president is concerned that attacks on U.S. soldiers by Afghan personnel could so disrupt training that a successful transition could be jeopardized.