Family Research Council shooting suspect charged with terrorism |  <paragraph>  The man charged with shooting a security guard at the Washington office of the Family Research Council in August now faces a terrorism charge, federal officials announced Wednesday.  <paragraph>  Floyd Lee Corkins, II,  28, of Herndon, Va. was indicted Wednesday on ten charges, including violating District of Columbia law by committing an act of terrorism while armed. A Justice Department statement said it was the first time anyone has been charged under the District's 2002 anti-terrorism law, which defines terrorism as illegal acts undertaken to “intimidate or coerce a significant portion of the civilian population of the District of Columbia or the United States.” The offense carries a possible sentence of 30 years in prison.  <paragraph>  On Aug. 15, Corkins allegedly walked into the FRC's building at 801G Street NW, took a handgun out of a backpack and fired at an unarmed security guard, striking him in the arm. The guard subdued Corkins and was not critically injured, according to court filings.  <paragraph>  An FBI affidavit filed earlier in the case said that before opening fire Corkins said words to the effect of: "I don't like your politics." In addition, his parents indicated he "has strong opinions with respect to those he believes do not treat homosexuals in a fair manner." The Family Research Council is a prominent socially conservative organization that has opposed a variety of gay-rights measures, including same-sex marriage.  <paragraph>  Corkins's backpack contained 50 rounds of ammunition and fifteen Chick-fil-A sandwiches. The incident took place amidst publicity over Chick-fil-A executives' support for anti-same-sex marriage legislation.  <paragraph>  Corkins previously faced a federal firearms charge and two D.C. charges. Now, he faces a total of ten charges, including assault with intent to kill and attempted murder.  <paragraph>  CORRECTION: The initial version of this post indicate at one point that the victim of the shooting was killed in the attack. He was wounded but not killed.