The widening partisan divide |   <paragraph>  There they go again.  <paragraph>  The White House and Congress are starting to circle each other in another mindless default dawdle while Greece teeters, Italy shakes, Spain splinters and France frets. The Eurozone's southern states are staggering toward insolvency while millions of Europeans cope with Depression-style suffering.  <paragraph>  The Greek political system is suffering a nervous breakdown, with spoiled voters almost certainly assuring an economic meltdown and Greece's exit from the EU.  <paragraph>  Spain's economy is strapped with a 25 percent unemployment rate that tops out at 50 percent for that nation's young workers. The situation has gotten so bad that its prime minister is now fretting that his country may soon be shut out of world markets. Italy's debt now equals a staggering 120 percent of its nation's GDP while the country suffers through three straight quarters of economic decline.  <paragraph>  Now the rest of Europe waits nervously to see how the dominoes falling in Athens will affect Rome, Paris and Berlin.  <paragraph>  Meanwhile, U.S. politicians continue playing the same insipid Washington games that have led our country to a record $16 trillion debt. Over the past 24 hours, GOP House Speaker John Boehner and Democratic Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid exchanged barbs about yet another default showdown, while President Obama called both sides into the White House so he could quickly leak details of his scolding lecture to lawmakers.  <paragraph>  That's sure to seal the deal, Mr. President.  <paragraph>  Taken together, the events of the past 24 hours prove that our national leaders remain locked in trench warfare where neither side dares to cross the ever widening partisan divide.  <paragraph>  Politically, some House members will probably benefit from such reckless, ideological behavior. But the president will not. It will be incumbent upon him to show independent voters just how aggressively he will fight over the next four years to bring deficit spending under control. Leave it to Bill Clinton to understand the moment at hand and figure out how to capitalize politically. Tuesday night, while mere politicians were lobbing spit balls at each other, the former president addressed the Peter G. Peterson Foundation and declared that facing down the budget crisis should be "front and center" in the 2012 campaign.  <paragraph>  Before left wing bloggers attack Mr. Clinton, they should remember that this is the same Democratic president who bloodied his Republican enemies by declaring that "the era of big government is over."  <paragraph>  Of course it wasn't by a long shot but then-President Clinton knew that the best way to win independent voters away from the GOP was by avoiding the label of "big government liberal." He signed a Republican welfare reform bill, promised to balance the budget and then got easily reelected in 1996.  <paragraph>  Barack Obama needs to perform a similar magic trick 16 years later.  <paragraph>  Despite the Republican Party's gallant efforts over the last six months to destroy their brand and help reelect their enemy, President Obama still trails a listless opponent in many polls. He is scoring poorly with voters on the economy. And too many independent voters dismiss him (for good reason) as a big spending liberal. To turn things around, the White House needs to follow Clinton's example and set up its GOP opponents.  <paragraph>  That will require a bold strategy and a new kind of thinking at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. It will demand a big idea on long-term debt reduction and short term growth. And that bold strategy will include President Obama's strong endorsement of the Simpson-Bowles plan to save America from economic insolvency. Liberals will protest, Democratic candidates will squeal, but it is the White House's best chance to put Mitt Romney in a corner and win over independent voters.  <paragraph>  It really shouldn't be that hard considering that Mr. Obama would only be endorsing the conclusions of his own debt commission.