Is Romney's fate Kristol clear? |  <paragraph>   While you were sleeping last night, most commentators called the GOP presidential fight for Methodical Mitt. Last night's win in Illinois was one of the cleaner victories for Team Romney though University of Virginia's Larry Sabato commented that it was "amusing to see pundits declare the Illinois primary a game-changer when it's the kind of state Romney should carry."    <paragraph>   Still, Sabato and others on National Review's Symposium posted early this morning concluded that the Republican race was all but over.    <paragraph>   Hugh Hewitt wrote that "unless a meteor hits the campaign bus, it is Obama vs. Romney in the fall, a race the former Massachusetts governor can win."    <paragraph>   The National Review's Jim Geraghty said "It's not quite over…but it's effectively over."    <paragraph>   Time Magazine's Mark Halperin called the race for Romney. And given an April calendar that favors Mitt and the fundraising shortcomings of the other candidates, Mark may be right.    <paragraph>   Still, hope springs eternal for those hoping for a conservative knight in shining armor to emerge from Tampa, though some of us are starting to sound like Japanese soldiers burrowed into Pacific islands ready to fight a battle whose outcome is already determined.    <paragraph>   But don't expect Bill Kristol to march meekly behind the Republican Party's flawed front runner.    <paragraph>   This morning, Kristol told readers why Mitt Romney may have won the battle but conservatives are likely to lose the political war this fall with Barack Obama.    <paragraph>   "Watching Mitt Romney's victory speech in Illinois didn't reassure me about his chances against President Obama. His victory seems likely (but still not inevitable!), But if he sticks with this core message, we'd better hope Republicans and independents are really determined to get rid of Barack Obama."    <paragraph>   Put me in the Kristol camp. Faced with the historic opportunity to retain the House, take the Senate, win the White House and reshape the Supreme Court for a generation, the Republican Party seems destined to nominate a candidate they do not even like.