Alito speaks up for Asian Americans | <paragraph>  When the Supreme Court took up the issue of Affirmative Action in higher education Wednesday for the first time in nearly a decade, Justice Samuel Alito seemed to be particularly focused on the program's impact on Asian Americans.  <paragraph>  As lawyer Greg Garre sought to defend the University of Texas's Affirmative Action program, Alito asked about an unusual aspect of the school's racial preference system: it actually seeks out African Americans and Latinos who are privileged socioeconomically and provides a boost in the admissions process.  <paragraph>  "You specifically have the example of the child of successful professionals in Dallas...If you have -you have an applicant whose parents are -- let's say they're — one of them is a partner in your law firm in Texas, another one is a part — is another corporate lawyer. They have income that puts them in the top 1 percent of earners in the country, and they have — parents both have graduate degrees. They deserve a leg-up against, let's say, an Asian or a white applicant whose parents are absolutely average in terms of education and income?" Alito asked.  <paragraph>  "No," Garre insisted. "We want minorities from different backgrounds. We go out of our way to recruit minorities from disadvantaged backgrounds," he said, apparently alluding to another program mandated by state law that admits the top 10 percent of each high school class—effectively admitting a large number of Latinos and African Americans.  <paragraph>  Later, Alito returned again to the issue of whether Asian Americans were being treated fairly in the admissions process.  <paragraph>  "In terms of diversity, how do you justify lumping together all Asian Americans? Do you think — do you have a critical mass of Filipino Americans? Cambodian Americans?" Alito asked.  <paragraph>  "The common form that's used has Asian American, but also, next to that, has a form that says country of origin where that can be spelled out," Garre replied.  <paragraph>  "But do you have a critical mass as to all the subgroups that fall within this enormous group of Asian Americans?" Alito asked.  <paragraph>  "Your Honor, we've looked to whether or not we have a critical mass of underrepresented minorities, which is precisely what the Grutter decision asks us to do," Garre said.  <paragraph>  Alito was arguably the most forceful and argumentative challenger of the Texas program among the justices at Wednesday's arguments. Affirmative action is apparently a subject matter he's had an interest in for some time. At his confirmation hearings in 2006, it emerged that when applying for a job in the Reagan Administration in 1995, Alito listed himself as a member of Concerned Alumni of Princeton, a group whose members expressed concern about rising numbers of women at the university and also challenged some of the school's Affirmative Action practices.  <paragraph>  At his hearings, Alito said he had no recollection of involvement with the group, but may have joined because of its work to support the presence of ROTC military officer training on campus.  <paragraph>  A full transcript of Wednesday's oral arguments is posted   <hyperlink> here.