Obama talked of Libya attack as 'terror' 2 weeks ago |  <paragraph>  Despite a drumbeat from the right and even   <hyperlink> independent fact-checkers that President Barack Obama has been unwilling to label as terrorism the attack on a United States diplomatic mission in Libya, the president indicated just a day after the killing of the American ambassador there that the assault was part of a series of "acts of terror" the U.S. has faced.  <paragraph>  "No acts of terror will ever shake the resolve of this great nation, alter that character, or eclipse the light of the values that we stand for," Obama said   <hyperlink> in a Rose Garden statement on Sept. 12. "Today, we mourn four more Americans who represent the very best of the United States of America.  We will not waver in our commitment to see that justice is done for this terrible act.  And make no mistake, justice will be done."  <paragraph>  Notwithstanding Obama's initial statement, Republicans have faulted him for failing to use the word "terrorism" to describe the attack, even when he was asked directly about it during an interview on Monday.  <paragraph>  "More than two weeks after the attack on our Consulate in Benghazi, President Obama finally called this what it clearly was: an act of terrorism, not a spontaneous protest against a disgusting video," Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Lindsay Graham (R-S.C.) said in a statement Wednesday. "We recognize that Al-Qaeda involvement in a terrorist attack that killed four Americans in Libya is an inconvenient truth for a President who claims to be destroying Al-Qaeda. But it is not too much to ask why the President and his Administration have taken so long to state what has appeared obvious for a long time about what really happened in Benghazi on September 11, 2012."  <paragraph>  "Why Won't Obama Call It Terrorism?" Republican National Committee Chairman   <hyperlink> Reince Priebus asked in a RealClearPolitics op-ed Thursday. "He [Obama] yet again failed to call it what was: a terrorist attack on the 11th anniversary of 9/11....Now, nearly everyone but the president himself has finally admitted: the attack was the work of terrorists."  <paragraph>  The GOP criticism, while a bit sloppy, isn't without any merit. U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Susan Rice did seem to make   <hyperlink> an intentional effort 10 days or so ago to argue that the attack stemmed from a spontaneous protest over an anti-Muslim video. Her comments were all the more notable because up until that point, the State Department was refusing to answer questions about discrepancies between Libyan and U.S. statements on the issue.  <paragraph>  It's also fair to note that Obama's initial Rose Garden statement implied a link between the video and the attack, as did almost all of the initial news coverage of the deadly violence at the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi.  <paragraph>  According to   <hyperlink> House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers (R-Mich.), there's no indication a protest was under way at the consulate when the compound came under assault from rocket-propelled grenades and other weapons.  <paragraph>  In addition to Ambassador Chris Stevens, three other Americans were killed in the Sept. 11 attack in Benghazi.