Judge speeds Fast and Furious contempt lawsuit |  <paragraph>  A House committee's lawsuit against Attorney General Eric Holder over his refusal to turn over some documents related to the fallout from Operation Fast and Furious will move forward at a faster pace than the parties requested, a federal judge ruled Wednesday.  <paragraph>  The Justice Department   <hyperlink> moved on Oct. 15 to throw out the lawsuit brought by the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and agreed with the House panel that it's lawyers could have two months to respond to that motion. However, U.S. District Court Judge Amy Berman Jackson rejected that proposal on Wednesday, saying that the House committee should file its response by Nov. 16.  <paragraph>  "The Court is usually quite receptive to requests to extend the time limits imposed by the local rules, but the parties have not set forth grounds that would support the establishment of a schedule that is as expansive as this one. Moreover, the Court has determined that it is appropriate to resolve the pending motion to dismiss for lack of jurisdiction before establishing a schedule for the briefing and consideration of motions on the merits," Jackson wrote. <paragraph>  Jackson said the Justice Department could reply to the House panel by Dec. 10. She also set a status hearing for Nov. 27.  <paragraph>  The lawsuit tests the authority and the willingness of the courts to intercede in a dispute between Congress and the Executive Branch over access to documents Congress says it needs to carry out its oversight responsibilities. President Barack Obama exercised executive privilege to block disclosure of the records, which detail part of the Justice Department's response to Congress and the media in the wake of the controversy over Fast and Furious, a gunrunning investigation which may have allowed as many as 2000 weapons to flow from U.S. gun dealers to Mexican drug cartels.  <paragraph>  Despite Obama's invocation of executive privilege,  <hyperlink> the House voted in June to hold the attorney general in contempt of Congress and to authorize the filing of a lawsuit to compel production of the materials.