Hannity's immigration evolution draws praise from conservative Latino group | Sean Hannity’s announcement that he has “evolved” on immigration is drawing praise from a conservative Latino organization. <paragraph> Alfonso Aguilar, executive director of the Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles, on Friday applauded Hannity for telling his radio listeners he now supports a pathway to citizenship for those in the United States without criminal records. <paragraph> “Sean Hannity has taken a bold step and conservatives are behind him. It is time to allow the market — rather than a bureaucratic federal government — to determine our immigration policy,”  <hyperlink> Aguilar said, according to a press release. <paragraph> “The tidal wave of support for real reform is growing,”  <hyperlink> Aguilar said. <paragraph> “There is a growing momentum within the conservative movement to embrace a market-based immigration plan that is in line with Ronald Reagan, who said it best:  ‘No regulation or law should be allowed if it results in crops rotting in the fields for lack of harvesters,’”  <hyperlink> Aguilar noted. <paragraph> In the wake of the GOP's failure to attract the Latino vote in the 2012 election, Hannity on Thursday said the United States needs to “get rid of the immigration issue altogether.”  <hyperlink> <paragraph> “I think you control the border first,"  <hyperlink> he said. "You create a pathway for those people that are here — you don’t say you’ve got to go home. And that is a position that I’ve evolved on. Because, you know what, it’s got to be resolved."
Blitzer cameos in new Bond film 'Skyfall' | The name’s Blitzer. Wolf Blitzer. <paragraph> If you catch a screening of the new James Bond movie “Skyfall” this weekend, you’ll spot the CNN anchor making a brief cameo appearance early on in the film. Blitzer plays himself and delivers a crucial news report that spurs Bond into action on behalf of her Majesty's secret service. It's a small role, but crucial to driving the plot. <paragraph> “Daniel Craig, James Bond and Wolf Blitzer,” Blitzer said on Thursday’s show about his performance. “You’ll have to see it.” <paragraph> Blitzer asked his viewers to tweet him once they’d seen the film. <paragraph> “This acting thing, maybe I’ve got some potential,” he added. “You never know." <paragraph> He’s not the only CNN anchor with a movie out this month: Piers Morgan guests in the Denzel Washington movie “Flight,” which opened last Friday. Like Blitzer, the “Piers Morgan Tonight” anchor plays himself. Morgan tweeted on Thursday <hyperlink>about what he dubbed CNN’s “thespian war.” <paragraph> “So, I'm in the new Denzel movie #Flight and @wolfblitzer 's in the new Bond movie #Skyfall - both out this week. This is... #CNNthespianwar,” Morgan wrote. <paragraph> CNN did not have any additional comment.
Murdoch apologizes to ADL for 'Jewish owned press' tweet | Media mogul Rupert Murdoch apologized to the Anti-Defamation League in a phone call and follow-up letter for his controversial tweet blasting the “Jewish owned press” for their “anti-Israel” coverage. <paragraph> "I feel very strongly about the righteousness of Israeli's cause, particularly when its citizens are under missile attack,” Murdoch wrote in his letter. “So I do get very upset when I see coverage that I feel is unfair and biased towards Israel.  But I should have stuck to the substance of the issue and not bring in irrelevant and incorrect ethnic matters." <paragraph> The News Corp. CEO called his tweet “awkward and inappropriate” in the letter and phone call, the press release stated. <hyperlink>  <paragraph> ADL national director Abraham Foxman on Monday said the group accepted Murdoch’s apology. <paragraph> “After speaking with Mr. Murdoch, it is clear that he deeply regretted posting his remark on Twitter and understands how his reference to ‘Jewish owned media’ could play into the age-old anti-Semitic conspiracy theory about ‘Jewish control’ of the news media,” Foxman said in a statement. “We appreciate his effort to apologize, and to make clear that his remarks were an attempt to defend Israel made at a time when the Jewish state is under direct assault, and were not intended to hurt or to offend.” <paragraph> In 2010, Murdoch was presented with the ADL International Leadership Award. <hyperlink> Murdoch on Sunday offered a kind of apology  <hyperlink> for his original comment <hyperlink>  — “Why Is Jewish owned press so consistently anti- Israel in every crisis?” — writing on Twitter that “’,Jewish owned press’ have been sternly criticised, suggesting link to Jewish reporters. Don't see this, but apologise unreservedly.”
Pew: Fox, MSNBC more extreme in campaign's last week | Fox News and MSNBC became even more extreme in their coverage of President Barack Obama and Mitt Romney during the final days of the 2012 campaign, according to a new study out Monday. <paragraph> On MSNBC, negative coverage of Romney jumped from 57 percent for most of October to 68 percent from Oct. 29 to Nov. 5, while Fox News’s negative coverage of Obama increased from 47 percent to 56 percent in the last week, the Pew Research Center's Project for Excellence in Journalism survey found.  <hyperlink>  <paragraph> Meanwhile, MSNBC’s positive coverage of Obama grew from 33 percent to 51 percent during that last week and Fox News’s favorable Romney coverage increased from 34 percent of segments to 42 percent. <paragraph> Overall, the study found that Obama enjoyed a major surge in positive coverage during the last week of his campaign, with positive stories outnumbering negative ones by 10 points, or 29 percent to 19 percent. Romney’s final week with the press was marked by more negative stories than positive, 33 percent to 16 percent. <paragraph> The study analyzed 660 stories from 49 outlets from Oct. 22 through Nov.5. For more, read the full study here. <hyperlink> 
NYT's Carr puts the spotlight on Washington Post publisher | The New York Times’ David Carr on Sunday hammered Washington Post publisher Katharine Weymouth for her handling of the switch from Marcus Brauchli as executive editor to Martin Baron. <paragraph> “It is an inopportune time for The Post to stumble. Ms. Weymouth’s move is akin to switching drivers just as the car is sputtering to a stop,” Carr wrote in his Sunday column.  <hyperlink>  “Print, and more ominously, digital advertising revenue is in decline, circulation is in a dive and the newspaper’s ‘for and about Washington’ editorial strategy has left employees underwhelmed. Now Ms. Weymouth seems to be upending the loyalty and accountability that has been a hallmark of her family’s ownership of the newspaper.” Carr wrote that although Weymouth may have made a good decision by selecting Baron, “four years into her tenure at the top, she still seems to be struggling to get a grasp on a huge job at a company whose journalism has at times altered the course of a nation.” <paragraph> “Brauchli may not have been the perfect person to lead the newsroom in entropic times, but the way the switch was made raised questions about Ms. Weymouth’s maturity and steadfastness as an operational leader,” Carr wrote. <paragraph> Still, he wrote, The Post remains “an important player.” <paragraph> “It is not what it once was, but it isn’t nothing either. Ms. Weymouth’s continued misfires, along with the lack of success in generating new revenue, however, have left the newspaper staring down the gun barrel of deep cuts and a business model in free fall,” he wrote. <paragraph> Weymouth declined to comment for the piece, Carr noted. 
Tina Brown: 'The Zeitgeist was against Newsweek' | When Tina Brown looks back on her decision to take over Newsweek, “it just seems completely insane, actually,” she told New York Magazine. <paragraph> In a wide-ranging interview appearing in the Nov. 26 issue  <hyperlink> ,  Brown spoke about everything from the future of newsweeklies to who she supported in the 2012 election — “you know who I voted for” — to her friendship with The Huffington Post’s Arianna Huffington — “we shared some of the same boyfriends.” As for her start at Newsweek, Brown told Michael Kinsley she felt it was a “romantic gamble that there was still life to be had for” the newsweekly.  <paragraph> “We felt that for the Daily Beast—such a frisky digital brand—to have a print platform as well would be great,” the ex-Vanity Fair, ex-New Yorker, ex-Talk editor said. “And, actually, that proved to be true. But every piece of the Zeitgeist was against Newsweek, combined with an unfixable infrastructure and a set of challenges that really would have required five years in an up economy to solve.” <paragraph>  And the future is a metered-access model, she said, with Newsweek charging readers for every fourth or fifth piece. Other magazines will soon follow Newsweek and move online, Brown, who announced in October that Newsweek would cease publishing  <hyperlink> at the end of this year and move to an all-digital format, predicted.  <paragraph>  “I think a lot of magazines are going to have to go online. There will be magazines, but a lot of magazines are going to decide that with basic, inherent costs, the fact that advertisers want to now be in digital, combined with the reading habits of all of us—they’ll decide that print doesn’t make any sense,” Brown said. <paragraph> And her decision to take on Newsweek "just seems completely insane" to her now, she said. <paragraph> “Within the first few months, one of the partners dies—before we’d even really gotten the office straight. I came into a situation where pretty much every senior member of management had departed,” she noted. <paragraph> Not to mention that the magazine cost $42 million to print even before any staff salaries, she said. <paragraph> “That was the thing,” Brown said. “We just looked at it in the spring, and everything, every trend, suggested this was never going to change. It’s not like you felt it was a temporary advertising situation.” And while she had envisioned that Newsweek could take after European newsmagazines with their “energetic, high-low approach to news,” Newsweek’s poor advertising sales made that impossible, Brown said. "There’s something about the way a magazine looks and feels when it doesn’t have advertising that is unbelievably disappointing, both as an editor and as a writer,” she said. <paragraph> Brown also reflected on the very different world of Newsweek in its heyday — “when I looked at the document of sale, it was like the vestiges of the great galleon it had been. It was like that wreck of the Titanic, in the James Cameron film” — but said the magazine still has a “great deal of access and power.” <paragraph> “And I think we’ve done a very good magazine,” she told Kinsley. “I don’t know whether you’ve been reading it—probably not—but it’s very good. There was a lot of talent here. But it’s like having a refrigerator on each foot—to have this carapace of the print magazine and all its problems, and all its legacy of unsolved issues. Once we shed that, we’ll just be able to focus on the content. I find that very liberating, personally. I think many of the staff do, too.” <paragraph> In the interview, Brown also defended herself against various accusations Kinsley posed — that she only cares about “buzz,” hasn’t made money for any of the publications she has run and that her only role is paying lots of money to big-name writers. <paragraph> Kinsley also offered an “observation” that “Tina has a thing for older men. And older men have a thing for Tina.” “Do you feel you have a special connection with older men?” he asked. <paragraph> “I certainly feel I have a special connection with the one I’m married to,” she said, as Kinsley jumped in to press her again on his “observation.” <paragraph> “You go to war with the army you have,” Brown replied. “Please. Let’s not talk about me having things for Si Newhouse and Harvey Weinstein. I enjoyed working for both of them, even Harvey.” <paragraph> The interview ended with a look four years into the future, to the 2016 election: Brown said she’d throw her full support behind Hillary Clinton. <paragraph> “Citizen Tina—thanks for that—would hike across America for Hillary. I’ve seen her up close in action in our Women in the World events, and she’s so unbelievably compelling. I want her to get her two years off, cut her hair again, freshen up those old pantsuits, and hit the trail running,” Brown said.   
Post ombudsman on Brauchli and Baron | Washington Post ombudsman Patrick Pexton on Friday reflected on the end of Marcus Brauchli's reign as executive editor and the future of the paper under Martin Baron. <paragraph> Pexton wrote in his column, "A new era — and editor — for The Post  <hyperlink> ," that Brauchli had the "misfortune" of leading the Post during the last four years when "there has been no harder time to lead a major national or metropolitan newspaper." <paragraph> "What did Brauchli accomplish, and where does his departure leave the newsroom, which will now go through more turmoil and perhaps more cuts?" Pexton asked. "And what will the change mean for readers and for The Post, a publication important to the functioning of American democracy?" <paragraph> Brauchli's "most important legacy," Pexton wrote, is that he "he and his team brought The Post fully into the digital era." <paragraph> He has an "understated style of leadership that many liked," but Pexton said reporters and editors told him they wanted "more engagement" and a newsroom leader who could "drive the newsroom, pushing the staff to perform on big news stories, a harder-hitting journalist — not in an overbearing sense but in a determined, fire-in-the-belly, newshound kind of way." <paragraph> That wasn't the only newsroom complaint Pexton heard. The Post's Local staff "felt neglected until around the last year of Brauchli's tenure," many in the newsroom thought the Style section "was allowed to lose its focus and distinctive voice" and some Post veterans said Brauchli "never really connected or reached out to them, nor tapped their institutional knowledge." <paragraph>  "Now the newsroom is worried about more upheaval, just when many reporters and editors felt things were settling down. They worry about their jobs and whether Baron, who downsized the Globe’s newsroom, is being brought in to do more of the same," he wrote. <paragraph>  Post publisher Katharine Weymouth told Pexton she does not intend for any “change in mission and no draconian cuts.” <paragraph> "The key point for The Post, for newcomer Baron and for the newsroom to remember at this difficult time is that the mission of this paper, even amid all the technological and financial challenges, is larger than any individual. That mission must be preserved," Pexton wrote. "The Post’s brand, identity and purpose is to keep governments — national and local — honest and to point out when they’re not, to chronicle our age and the people in the capital region who define it, to tell a good sports story and to have some fun doing all of the above." 
NYT CEO faces more scrutiny from NYT | A legal letter about the BBC’s Jimmy Savile sexual abuse scandal is raising more questions about New York Times chief executive Mark Thompson’s knowledge of the spiked investigation into the BBC host, the Times reported Friday  <hyperlink>  <paragraph> . The Times’ Matthew Purdy wrote that in September, lawyers who represented Thompson and another executive “threatened to sue The Sunday Times in London” over a proposed article about the spiking of the “Newsnight” investigation into Savile. <paragraph> An aide told the Times that although Thompson authorized the letter, he was not aware of what the note detailed. Purdy wrote “interviews show that the letter included a summary of the alleged abuse, including the allegation that some abuse might have occurred at the BBC.” It also threatened “defamation proceedings.” <paragraph> “It’s not clear if he was shown it, but he doesn’t remember reading it,” the aide told the Times. <paragraph> The Sunday Times magazine article never ran, Purdy noted. Thompson did not comment to the Times for the article. <paragraph> Thompson, the former BBC director general who started his new job at the Times on Monday,has said he was not involved in killing the Savile investigation <hyperlink> . He has said he was not briefed on the investigation and had no knowledge of it being dropped, although he later said a reporter briefly informed him of it in December 2011. <paragraph> “There were other moments during Mr. Thompson’s final months at the BBC — involving brief conversations and articles appearing in London news media — when he might have picked up on the gravity of the Savile case," Purdy wrote. "But the letter is different because it shows Mr. Thompson was involved in an aggressive action to challenge an article about the case that was likely to reflect poorly on the BBC and on him."
Kristol: 'Mistake' to fight over Bush tax cuts | The Weekly Standard’s Bill Kristol on Monday said it would be a “mistake” if Republicans pick a fight on the expiring Bush tax cuts and added that the party needs to “get it out of the way so we can fight about tax reform.” <paragraph> “It’s President Obama’s proposal, he ran on it, let him implement it. If things slow down, it’s his fault. And that’s fine with me, and I hope things don’t slow down because I hope we get real tax reform in 2013,” Kristol said Monday night on Fox News’s “Special Report” with Bret Baier. “But I just think picking the fight right now on the expiring Bush tax cuts is a mistake.” <paragraph> Kristol said he hopes the Republican Party caves on this now so “we can fight about the big deal that has to happen next year.” <paragraph>  “The Bush tax rates expire on Dec. 31,” he said. “Rates are going up for everyone, if nothing happens. If you think Republicans can win a showdown on preserving all the current Bush tax rates against a president who was just re-elected and gained seats in the Senate and House on just raising rates on millionaires, well, good luck. I prefer this as a policy outcome. I don’t think it’s winnable. I think at the end, Republicans will cave.” <paragraph>  The Weekly Standard editor noted that the four fastest years of economic growth in the last 30 years were under Ronald Reagan when the top marginal tax rate was 50 percent. <paragraph>  “Honestly, 35 to 39 percent, by itself, is not going to cripple the economy,” Kristol added. <paragraph>  Kristol first expressed his support of allowing the Bush tax cuts to expire on Sunday. <paragraph>  "The leadership of the Republican Party and the leadership of the conservative movement has to pull back, let people float new ideas. Let's have a serious debate," Kristol said on "Fox News Sunday <hyperlink> ." "Don't scream and yell if one person says 'You know what? It won't kill the country if we raise taxes a little bit on millionaires.' It really won't, I don't think." <paragraph>  "I don't really understand why Republicans don't take Obama's offer to freeze taxes for everyone below $250,000, make it $500,000, make it $1 million," Kristol added on Sunday. "Really? The Republican Party is going to fall on its sword to defend a bunch of millionaires, half of whom voted Democratic and half of whom live in Hollywood?" 
What's the quickest way to Canada? | <video> It’s the age-old election threat: I’ll move to Canada if my candidate loses. <paragraph> Well, on Wednesday morning, FOX23’s traffic reporter Jeff Brucculeri made that promise a little easier for Tulsa residents to fulfill by offering viewers the best route to get to our northern neighbors. <paragraph> “We had some folks make a special request. I know a lot people said that if their candidate lost the election, they’d be moving to Canada — not sure why, but that was some of the folks’ promises out there. So let me give you the quickest and direct-est route to Canada from Tulsa,” he said during the “Beat The Traffic” segment on Tulsa, Oklahoma's FOX23. <paragraph> Brucculeri recommended taking Highway 75 northbound, up through Kansas. “When you get into Omaha, watch for that junction for Interstate 29, because then you want to take I-29,” he said. “Literally, I-29 will go to the Canadian border.” <paragraph> The newsroom erupted with laughter off-screen, but Brucculeri soldiered on with his directions. <paragraph> “They’re laughing at me. Now, when you get to Canada — this is serious stuff,” he said. “When you get to Canada, you’re going to hit the border here, make sure you got either your card or your passport, okay, to get into Canada, now. Then you’re going to get back on what is known as Highway 75 in Canada, or it’s actually the Lord Selkirk Highway. If you’re moving to Canada, you’re going to need to know this. Lord Selkirk Highway, okay?"
Huckabee to pundits: Put up or shut up | Mike Huckabee on Thursday laid out a challenge to the pundits who are now criticizing Mitt Romney’s campaign: “If you’re so doggone good at this, when will we see your name on the ballot?”  <paragraph> “I’m just so tired of the people who have never actually gotten in the game of politics trying to figure out what went wrong,” he said on “The Mike Huckabee Show” Thursday afternoon. “And I’m going to challenge, if you're one of those people — you may even be a host of a radio show — if you're so doggone good at this, when will we see your name on the ballot? I’m just curious if you’ll let me know, because I want to sit back and watch to see how it ought to be done.”  <paragraph>  For those that have never been in the political arena to think they understand how to run a campaign, Huckabee said, just shows the “level of ignorance” among political pundits. <paragraph> “So I say come out of the stands, put your jacket aside where it’s nice and warm, get down on the field, take a few hits upside the head, come off the field with your own blood pouring out of your body, several of your bones broken, and tell me what a great, great genius approach you had to the whole process,” Huckabee said. <paragraph> The former Arkansas governor also reflected on his own political career, noting that each time someone offered him advice on how to win, he felt tempted to respond sarcastically. <paragraph> “No, I really don’t want to win, because then you have to work and you have a job to do,” Huckabee said he would want to tell his critics. “I just want to run to run because it’s so much fun coming out here, getting up at four in the morning every morning and running until well past midnight, living off hot cokes and cold pizza, eating every meal you have for two years out of a paper sack while on the way to yet another campaign event. So, no, I really don’t want to win the election, I just enjoy this extraordinary process of having the tar beaten out of me by newspapers, editorial cartoonists, by opponents and their negative ads.” <paragraph> 
Sean Hannity on Wednesday said Americans deserve the government they voted for and "America now deserves Barack Obama” — “good luck with that.” <paragraph>  “Americans, you get the government you deserve,” he told listeners to his radio show on Wednesday. “And it pains me to say this, but America now deserves Barack Obama. You deserve what you voted for. I know half the country didn’t vote that way, but America deserves the government that they want and they deserve. Four years ago, the public could be excused for voting for Obama because, frankly, he was a blank canvas.” <paragraph> “Now he is a known entity,” the conservative radio host said. “And just barely over 50 percent looked at his pathetic record and decided they wanted more of the same. I’m not sure exactly why they arrived at that judgment, I think it’s a bad judgment, but we are a self-governing country and the voice and the will of ‘We the People’ have now been heard. America wanted Barack Obama four more years. Now you’ve got him.” <paragraph> “Good luck with that,” he added. <paragraph> Hannity also called on fellow conservatives to not “give up the fight.” <paragraph> “You don’t give up in the cause you believe in,” he said. “You can’t call yourself a conservative. The country that we love — you know, what happens to the world if American doesn’t, doesn’t lead? You can take a few days if you want to feel sorry for yourself, not that it’s going to do any good. Yeah, we did take a big body blow and we all know it. We’re all stunned. It’s like you got punched in the head, and it’s like, ow, whoa, hello.” <paragraph> 
Foreign media eyes U.S. results | President Barack Obama’s victory over Mitt Romney took center stage at media organizations around the world on Wednesday as they assessed what Obama’s reelection spells for their own countries over the next four years.  <paragraph> In Israel, the left-leaning paper Haaretz wrote about Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu’s “election-night double whammy.” <paragraph> “He suffered a caustic and humiliating political double loss,” Haaretz’s Yossi Verter wrote. “It began with Naftali Bennett’s election as the new chairman of the right-wing Habayit Hayehudi party and ended with President Barack Obama’s reelection and the defeat of Netanyahu’s old friend Mitt Romney in the race for the White House.” <paragraph> And that means that Netanyahu “will pay the price” with his relationship with Obama. <paragraph> “The chilly and murky relationship between the current and next president and the current prime minister – who is also very likely to be the next prime minister – is well-known,” Verter wrote. “Netanyahu gambled on Romney. Netanyahu’s bet did not come in. Netanyahu will pay the price. How high will the cost be? How painful will it be? Obama will decide, at the time and place of his choosing. If he decides to meddle in our election campaign in some fashion, no one could blame him. Bibi started it.” <paragraph> And The Jerusalem Post put together a round-up of Israeli politicians’ responses to Obama’s victory, noting that Netanyahu “hosted US Ambassador Dan Shapiro at his Jerusalem office Wednesday to personally assure him that he wanted to work closely with US President Barack Obama.” Meanwhile, the Post wrote, “defense minister Ehud Barak issued his congratulatory statement even before Obama’s acceptance speech. According to Channel 2 reporter Udi Segal, he was the first to do so.” And President Shimon Peres wrote Obama a letter saying, “your success will be the success of us all.” <paragraph>  Kenya’s state-run media organization — Kenya Broadcasting Corporation — reported on the celebration in Kogelo, the hometown of Obama’s father. Family spokesperson Malick Abongo told journalists that “we did not want to celebrate or have any prior arrangement for that because the race was too tight, but now we can throw a party.” The village is planning to throw a feast to celebrate, KBC added. <paragraph> Reuters interviewed Romney’s Mormon relatives in Mexico, who the wire service wrote “mourned his presidential election defeat.” <paragraph> Just to let him slip away from being president of the United States is a real tragedy for the U.S. because he could have given the country so much,” Virginia Romney told Reuters. “He has been such a success in everything he has done.” <paragraph> China’s state news agency Xinhua reflected on the future of U.S.-Chinese relations in a commentary piece that never mentioned Obama. <paragraph> “China seeks to develop and engage with the international community in a peaceful way. It wants to build a new type of relationship — one defined by mutual benefit and cooperation — with major countries,” Xinhua wrote. “Whereas, there remains the antiquated attitude in which an emerging player is considered as a threat to established ones and should be suppressed. This mindset has led to much unrest and even world wars in the past, but has yet to be abandoned.”
MSNBC weighs in on Karl Rove | <video>  MSNBC has weighed in on Karl Rove’s spat with Fox News co-hosts <hyperlink> over the network's decision to call Ohio for President Obama. <paragraph> MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow said Rove “is describing this as being just like 2000 and it is not over.” <paragraph> “I don’t mean to cross-advertise here, but on the conservative cable news network Fox News Channel – Fox News Channel called Ohio for Obama, but the on-air talent at Fox News Channel is refusing to concede that they believe it," she said. <paragraph> “Can you define that word ‘talent’ for the people who are not in this industry,” MSNBC's Chris Matthews jumped in. “They happen to have positions. It doesn’t say anything about their quality.” <paragraph> “People who are wearing makeup and have cameras pointed at them,” Maddow replied. "It's not everybody who's on Fox News tonight, but some of the people who Fox is putting on tonight are refusing to believe their own network’s call in the state of Ohio." <paragraph> Maddow added that Rove “is now trying to get on air the Fox News Channel to rescind its call in Ohio in favor of the candidate that he has bankrolled to the tune of hundreds of millions of dollars. This is a remarkable thing.” <paragraph> NBC’s Chuck Todd called Rove’s reaction part of what will likely be seen from many Republicans — “it’s more than just a feeling of grief that they lost, they don’t believe it,” he said. <paragraph> “This goes to the larger point that I’ve been trying to make that there is going to be a big chunk of one of the two sides that was not going to believe they lost – it’s more than just a feeling of grief that they lost, they don’t believe it,” Todd said on MSNBC. “And I think you’re going to have a large chunk of the Republican base that doesn’t understand it. They’ve been told that the polls were skewed for week. They’ve been told for weeks there was something wrong with the polling and there was something wrong here and so that just makes it more difficult to govern. Let’s not pretend that it doesn’t.” <paragraph> Maddow also said Rove’s challenge is indicative of something that is happening on the right: “questioning what used to be basic agreed upon data.” <paragraph> “It’s worth looking at close races and I do not begrudge the Romney campaign for saying that they’ve got issues with what’s gone on with Ohio,” Maddow said. “But to decide that a result isn’t a result as long as you don’t like the outcome is something that means that we cannot work together as a country anymore. And we can’t go down this road very much further.” <paragraph> 
Karl Rove: Fox News Ohio call 'premature' | <video> Fox News has called Ohio for President Barack Obama, but Karl Rove disagreed with that decision Tuesday night, saying the state is far from settled and the call was “premature.” <paragraph>  Fox News’s Chris Wallace said the Romney campaign does "not believe Ohio is in the Obama camp,” noting that he got an email from a top Romney aide who said the campaign disagrees with the network’s call. He then asked Rove if he believed Ohio has been settled. <paragraph>  “No, I don’t,” Rove said. <paragraph>  “I think this is premature,” he added. “We’ve got a quarter of the vote. Now remember, here is the thing about Ohio. A third of the vote or more is cast early and is won overwhelmingly by the Democrats. It’s counted first and then you count the election day and the question is, by the time you finish counting the election day does it overcome that early advantage that Democrats have built up in early voting, particularly in Cuyahoga County.” <paragraph> Rove said the network needs to be “careful about calling things when we have like 991 votes separating the two candidates and a quarter of the vote yet to count. Even if they have made it on the basis of select precincts, I’d be very cautious about intruding in this process.” <paragraph> Wallace then replied, “Well, folks. So, maybe not so fast.” <paragraph> Fox News’s Megyn Kelly also weighed in, saying, “that’s awkward.” <paragraph> Shortly after, Kelly headed over to the “decision desk” to interview the team that made the call for Fox News. <paragraph> “We were thinking this wouldn’t be necessary, but as it turns out,” Kelly said, trailing off as she made the long walk through the studio. <paragraph> Fox News's decision desk said it stood by the call. <paragraph> “We are actually quite comfortable with the call in Ohio,” the pollster told Kelly. “Basically, right now there is too much Obama vote that's outstanding there that we know is going to come in, that is going to be Obama and while, yes, there are a number of counties out there that will be Romney, the largest thing that's outstanding right now is the Cleveland area, is Cuyahoga. This is Democratic territory and we're quite comfortable with the idea that Obama will carry Ohio.” <paragraph> As of publication, Rove is still disputing the call. 
Al Gore: Voter suppression like 'racist Jim Crow tactics' | Al Gore said Tuesday on Current TV that the attempt this cycle to stop people from voting has been "un-American" and a "disgrace," adding that it is a “strategy that is a direct descendent" of "racist Jim Crow tactics.” <paragraph> Gore, who co-founded the left-leaning cable channel, said he hopes there will be a "reckoning for these governors and state legistures that have intentionally tried to prevent people from voting. It is un-American." The problem — which he said included the long lines facing many voters, particularly in Florida — must be addressed in a bipartisan way after the election. <paragraph> “It is a strategy that is a direct descendent of the racist Jim Crow tactics that were used in the wake of the Civil War to prevent black people from voting. It’s more sophisticated now, it’s dressed up in different kinds of language, but it is un-American,” he said. “It is wrong. It is a disgrace to this country. And there ought to be a bipartisan movement to say, enough of this. We have the ability to let everyone who is eligible to vote without standing in line for eight hours, without having their names stricken wrongly from the voting rolls. And this is something that ought to be a bipartisan agenda after this election.” 
Bill O'Reilly: 'The white establishment is now the minority' | <video>  Fox News’s Bill O’Reilly said tonight that if President Barack Obama wins re-election, it’s because the demographics of the country have changed and “it’s not a traditional America anymore.” <paragraph> “The white establishment is now the minority,” O'Reilly said. “And the voters, many of them, feel that the economic system is stacked against them and they want stuff. You are going to see a tremendous Hispanic vote for President Obama. Overwhelming black vote for President Obama. And women will probably break President Obama's way. People feel that they are entitled to things and which candidate, between the two, is going to give them things?” <paragraph> “The demographics are changing,” he said. “It’s not a traditional America anymore.” <paragraph> (See also: 2012 election results map)  <hyperlink> <paragraph> O’Reilly said 50 percent of the voting public are people who “want stuff. They want things. And who is going to give them things? President Obama. He knows it, and he ran on it.” <paragraph> Twenty years ago, an establishment candidate like Mitt Romney would have trounced Obama, O’Reilly said. <paragraph> O’Reilly also criticized Romney for his response to Hurricane Sandy and said his campaign took “no chances” in recent days. <paragraph> “[Hurricane Sandy] just wiped the governor’s campaign off the map for five days. Five days Mitt Romney disappeared from the national debate and from the media headline,” O’Reilly said. “Now, it's interesting, because I told their campaign, and this is not self-aggrandizement, but I was speaking to some of the Romney people and I said do you have any idea that you are now invisible? Alright, no one is paying attention to you.” <paragraph> (PHOTOS: Election Day 2012)  <hyperlink> <paragraph> Obama, on the other hand, was seen out there trying to help victims, O’Reilly said. <paragraph> “I don't think that registered on the Romney people. But, in the exit polls tonight, that is a factor that President Obama looked bipartisan and presidential during that storm,” he said. <paragraph> And the Romney campaign coasted far too much on his debate performances in these last days, he added. <paragraph> “The strategy was we did better than we thought we were going to do in the debates. We're going to roll that into election day and take no chances,” O’Reilly said. “And that's exactly what the Romney campaign did. They took no chances. They didn't go on talk radio. They didn't go on national programs outside of football game interviews which mean nothing. They thought that they did well enough in the debates to roll in. And, you know what? They were right, except for Hurricane Sandy.”
Brit Hume: Obama 'made a real race of it' | Fox News’s Brit Hume said tonight that in spite of the economy, "Obamacare" and difficulties abroad, President Barack Obama has “made a real race of it” thanks to his team and the image many voters have of him as a “hero and historic figure.”  <paragraph>  With all those issues on the table this cycle, "one might have thought that the fundamental to this election would have given any reasonable challenger a leg up," Hume said. <paragraph> “I will say this — given the conditions in the country, given the fact that we do not have a robust recovery four years after Barack Obama was inaugurated, or elected, and given the fact that, you know, we have had difficulties on the world scene most recently with the problems in Libya, given the fact that "Obamacare," the president's proudest achievement in his own way of looking at things, remains unpopular, one might have thought that the fundamental to this election would have given any reasonable challenger a leg up,” Hume said. <paragraph> But that discounts two major factors, Hume said: Obama’s ground game and his position in the minds of many Americans. <paragraph> “The feeling that people have about Barack Obama that he is a hero and a historic figure and, I think that people — we're finding that people really don't want to let go of that, a great many people,” Hume said. “We're also finding that the Obama team, anticipating certainly in the wake of 2010 but even before that, perhaps, that this was going to be a very difficult election, have built a real machine to try to get out their vote and try to make this a close race.” <paragraph> Hume added that “based on all that we knew coming into tonight, I’m not surprised it's close.” <paragraph> “If you looked back a couple years, you might have looked ahead and thought it would be easier election for the challenger than it so far has proved to be,” he said. “It doesn't mean, by the way, that the president is going to win. It just means that he’s made a real race of it.” 
Finding fault, world media watches | From Asia to the Middle East to Europe, media organizations worldwide are anxiously awaiting the results of the U.S. presidential election, parsing what either a second term for President Barack Obama or a win by Mitt Romney would mean for their own countries.  <paragraph> China’s state news agency Xinhua wrote in its column “China Voice” that the election means there will “hopefully” be a “pause in the China-bashing game.” During the campaign, “pointing fingers at China became an easy and convenient way for the two candidates to score political gains while avoiding taking responsibility for mishandling the domestic economy.” <paragraph> “If scapegoating and vilifying China are merely campaign tricks, with the heated campaign drawing to an end, it is time for whoever the president-in-waiting is to tone down his tough rhetoric and adopt a more rational stance,” the Nov. 6 column stated. “Despite arguments, there is common sense between the United States and China. As the world’s largest and second-largest economies, they can not afford to grapple with the backlash of any severe confrontations in any arena.” <paragraph> The column calls for the U.S. to find opportunities to partner with China and keep open a “constructive dialogue.” <paragraph> “It is better for the next U.S. president, [whoever] he may turn out to be, to seize the historic chance to extend the partnership,” the column stated. <paragraph> In Israel, left-leaning Haaretz newspaper’s senior correspondent Amir Oren focused on the impact of a potential Obama win on upcoming Israeli elections. <paragraph> “This is Obama’s second chance, after four years of missed opportunities, to clarify which direction he wants to go on the Middle East, so that Israeli voters will know if they are voting for a prime minister who will be on track to clash with Obama from the get-go,” Oren wrote. <paragraph> “In addition to making intensive efforts to reach an Israeli-Palestinian accord, Obama can be expected to give Iran a clear choice: talks or combat aircraft. He won’t waste his second chance,” Oren added. 
Roll Call names new editor | David Rapp will be the next editor of Roll Call, CQ Roll Call announced Tuesday. <paragraph> Rapp is heading to Roll Call from Bloomberg Government but previously worked at CQ as editor and senior vice president. He starts his new gig at Roll Call on Nov. 12, one day before the newly merged CQ Today and Roll Call publication is rolled out. <paragraph> “David comes to CQ Roll Call with a wealth of experience in publishing, particularly in digital strategy, and in creating innovative editorial products designed for people who rely on top-notch government information and analysis,” CQ Roll Call editorial director Susan Benkelman wrote to staffers in a note obtained by POLITICO. Benkelman noted that Rapp served as CQ’s first editor of new media, joined Bloomberg as ideas editor, and was editor in chief of Federal Computer Week. He left CQ in 2007 to start a business, TravelBeat.net. <paragraph> “In addition to this online experience, David has all the characteristics we need for the next editor of the new Roll Call: a track record of successful product redesigns and relaunches and a deep understanding of Congress, its community, the institution and its history,” Benkelman wrote in the memo. “He quite literally lives on Capitol Hill, and in the past 28 years he's come to know it as well as anyone in town. He also has an infectious enthusiasm for good stories, and is one of the most collaborative newsroom leaders I've worked with.” 
Fox News obsessed with lone Black Panther | On the most important day in American politics, one of Fox News’s biggest stories has been about a lone New Black Panther Party member standing outside a Philadelphia polling place. <paragraph> Fox News has featured several segments today on Jerry Jackson, who was charged in 2008 for voter intimidation, although the charges against him were later dropped. Jackson was spotted outside a Philadelphia polling place Tuesday morning, and Fox News confirmed <hyperlink>  Jackson is a designated poll watcher. <paragraph> Fox News's "Fox & Friends" kicked off the coverage of the New Black Panther Party today at 8 a.m. with an interview with Get Out The Vet's Ben Brink about how Navy SEALs and other veterans will "fight back" against such voter intimidation from the New Black Panther Party. About 10 minutes later, Fox News's Gretchen Carlson introduced video of the man standing outside the polling place. <paragraph> "This is a member of the Black Panthers standing guard outside a polling place in Philadelphia. Does it look reminiscent? Remember this from four years ago? The organization said it was thinking about monitoring the election. Critics say it's more like intimidation. The Black Panthers also stood guard at polling places in 2008 in Philly, the group's leader with a night stick in his hand. It looks very similar," she said. <paragraph> On "Fox & Friends," conservative radio host Laura Ingraham and Fox News legal analyst Peter J. Johnson, Jr. also discussed the New Black Panther Party member. <paragraph> During "America's Newsroom," Fox News’s Martha MacCallum played some “new video” of the New Black Panther Party member “standing guard outside a polling place opening doors as voters come through there to place their votes” and noted that a Fox News reporter tried to ask him about his role there. <paragraph> “We got only a ‘no comment’ from this gentleman,” MacCallum said. “You may recall a big story that unfolded, this is the tape back from 2008. The New Black Panther Party members were accused of voter intimidation in Philadelphia back then. One of them was seen holding a billy club outside of that polling place. So what does this mean this morning?” <paragraph> MacCallum then held a discussion on the topic with Fox News contributors Bill Kristol and Deroy Murdock. Later on, Fox News also conducted an interview with the Rev. Jesse Jackson about the New Black Panther Party member. <paragraph> 
NYT leads coverage on incoming CEO | The New York Times continues to provide in-depth reporting on the questions facing its incoming chief executive Mark Thompson over his role in the BBC’s Jimmy Savile sexual abuse scandal. <paragraph> In a Nov. 4 piece “As Scandal Flared, BBC’s Leaders Missed Red Flags <hyperlink> ,” the Times reported on Thompson’s history at BBC, his various statements regarding the spiked Savile investigation and the circumstances surrounding his hiring at the Times. The Times's investigation editor Matthew Purdy noted that the controversy surrounding the canceled “Newsnight” investigation “has shaken the solid reputation Mr. Thompson had when he left the BBC on Sept. 14.” <paragraph> “Interviews with former BBC executives and officials here in London show that in the months after the investigation was canceled, Mr. Thompson and his top executives repeatedly missed opportunities to pursue a fuller picture of the ‘Newsnight’ reporting, the fate of the program and, perhaps, of Mr. Savile,” the Times reported. <paragraph> “Whether through a series of near misses or a more deliberate avoidance, the executives failed to confront questions about Mr. Savile and the possibility that, in decades past, the BBC was somehow complicit in his behavior,” the Times added. <paragraph> The lengthy article also featured quotes from an interview with Thompson conducted last week. Thompson told the Times that he knew little, if anything, about the investigation. <paragraph> But, as the Times reported, “it was not for lack of opportunity.” After the investigation was spiked, there were seven articles in the British press about Savile and the canceled program, and former executives told the Times that some of those articles were in press clippings sent to top BBC executives and that Thompson’s daily morning conference call often featured discussions of the included clippings. Thompson told the Times he did not read all of the clippings and did not recall seeing those reports in any of the packets. <paragraph> Thompson, who is set to start work at the Times on Nov. 12, maintained that his public statements <hyperlink> on the matter have never changed. <paragraph> “I honestly believe I did nothing wrong,” he told the Times. <paragraph> And Media columnist Michael Wolff <hyperlink>  argues that the Times’ public editor, Margaret Sullivan, “largely deserves the credit for the brouhaha,” pointing to her call for the publication to “thoroughly” and aggressively report the story. <paragraph> “Thompson, in fact, will not have a journalism role at the Times; so, it is quite unclear how Sullivan's mandate reaches him,” Wolff wrote. “But her pointing to a guilt by association, of the Times with Thompson, and Thompson with the BBC, and the BBC with sex abuse, certainly seemed damning – albeit rather more in a New York Post than a New York Times manner.”
MSNBC's Alex Witt rips Judd Gregg for bailing on interview | MSNBC’s Alex Witt told viewers Saturday that Judd Gregg ditched their planned interview when the network decided to show part of President Barack Obama’s speech live because he "didn’t want to listen to the president and wait through the duration." <paragraph> The host teased an interview with Gregg during her show “Weekends with Alex Witt,” saying that the former New Hampshire Republican senator and governor would join her shortly to discuss avoiding the fiscal cliff. <paragraph> “Will Republicans work with the president if he is re-elected? That interview is coming up in just a few minutes,” she said. <paragraph> Witt then ran through some top news stories and cut to a reporter covering the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy in New York City. After the segment wrapped, the show went to commercial, and on its return, played about five minutes of Obama’s speech live. As MSNBC cut from the speech back to Witt, she announced Gregg had bailed on the show. <paragraph> “I wanted to let all of you know that we had teased the fact that former Republican senator and governor from New Hampshire Judd Gregg was going to speak with us,” she said. “I would like to let you know that he declined to stick around. He was plugged in, ready to go and he said he didn't want to listen to the president and wait through the duration to wait and speak with us.” <paragraph> "What just brings to mind for me is the possibility of spirit of bipartisanship on Capitol Hill when you have those kinds of sentiments being shared," she added. <paragraph> 
WaPo eds: Romney campaign insults voters | The Washington Post's editorial board on Friday attacked Mitt Romney’s campaign as insulting to Americans, telling readers the Republican "seems to be betting that voters have no memories, poor arithmetic skills and a general inability to look behind the curtain" and that they hope Tuesday's results "prove him wrong." The editorial board kicked off the blistering item by writing that “through all the flip-flops, there has been one consistency in the campaign of Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney: a contempt for the electorate.” The editorial then goes through a long list of complaints as it hits Romney for not releasing his bundlers and tax returns, his recent ad about Jeep jobs going to China, “his refusal to lay out an agenda” and “his chronic, baldly dishonest defense of mathematically impossible budget proposals.”“Within limits, all candidates say and do what they have to say and do to win,” the editorial board wrote. “Mr. Obama also has dodged serious interviews and news conferences. He has offered few specifics for a second-term agenda. He, too, aired commercials that distorted his opponent’s statements. But Mr. Obama has a record; voters know his priorities. His budget plan is inadequate, but it wouldn’t make things worse.”“Mr. Romney, by contrast, seems to be betting that voters have no memories, poor arithmetic skills and a general inability to look behind the curtain. We hope the results Tuesday prove him wrong,” the board wrote.
Brian Williams knocks Rush Limbaugh | NBC’s Brian Williams on Thursday knocked Rush Limbaugh for his comments about New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie in the wake of Hurricane Sandy, telling “Rock Center” viewers that the radio show host’s statements are proof “politics survived” the storm. <paragraph> After praising Christie for his “tactile and indefatigable” response, Williams laid into the radio host for his comments about the governor. Among other things, Limbaugh this week has called Christie a “Greek column” for President Barack Obama who has been showing "man love" for the president and has gone "overboard in praising a failed president" for political purposes. <paragraph> "So after all this loss you might be curious as to why Rush Limbaugh went after Gov. Christie today," Williams said. "It was because he’s getting along so well with the president, working together, saying nice things about Barack Obama. Just when we feared the storm wiped away everything, we learned politics survived.” <paragraph> “Proof that life goes on,” he added after the segment wrapped. <paragraph> During his monologue, Williams also blasted former FEMA director Michael Brown for saying the lesson of Hurricane Sandy is that people need to “chill out.” <paragraph>  "Something we intend to pass along to these homeowners in Mantaloking, New Jersey, as soon as the embers from their homes have thoroughly cooled," Williams said, adding that Brown was responsible for the “largest domestic human rights outrage of the modern era, the Katrina response.” 
Media: Obama in fighting mood | Top journalists and pundits reviewing the debate said Monday night it was clear President Barack Obama had come to the final faceoff spoiling for a fight with Mitt Romney, while the Republican nominee sought to fend off the attacks and maintain his momentum. <paragraph> “I thought in the middle of the debate that if I had been on the desert island for the last four years and I had just been parachuted into this debate, I would have thought the guy that had turned out to be Mitt Romney was the president protecting a lead and that Barack Obama was the challenger trying, somewhat desperately to catch up,” Fox News Sunday host Chris Wallace said. “Obama was slashing, was personal, was cutting.” <paragraph>  His Fox News colleague Brit Hume agreed, saying that Obama had a “very intent look on his face” like a “man looking for opportunities to strike.” <paragraph> On CNN, Candy Crowley, the moderator of the second presidential debate, said the candidates had two very different objectives tonight: Obama came to “rough up” Romney, while the Republican was seeking to preserve his new-found momentum. <paragraph>  “I think the president came to rough up Mitt Romney,” Crowley said. “I think he acted like a person that had to sort of stop some momentum by Romney. He went after him — ‘you’re all over the map, that’s not what you said before’ — I mean, almost every single answer from the president had something to do with Mitt Romney. I feel as though Mitt Romney approached this like a physician, first do no harm. I feel like he didn’t come in to necessarily win. I think he came in, you know, as a man who’s had a certain amount of momentum over the past three, four weeks since that first debate and not wanting to ruin it.” <paragraph>  NBC’s David Gregory also described the debate in terms of the president angling for a battle. The president was “determined to pick a fight” with Romney, who was “surprisingly, determined to avoid a fight, playing almost as if he was ahead, determined to sound more moderate, to disagree less with the president on foreign policy,” said the “Meet the Press” host. <paragraph> CNN’s Wolf Blitzer noted that except for a few “rhetorical flourishes,” there wasn’t much difference between the two candidates on foreign policy, he said. <paragraph> “This was a debate where they wound up agreeing, even though there were nuances of disagreement, they wound up basically in terms of the big picture agreeing on a lot, on Iran, on Israel, on Afghanistan Libya, Syria, even on China, basically the thrust was one of agreement, even though at times they had little rhetorical flourishes against each other,” Blitzer said. <paragraph> The Atlantic’s James Fallows also pointed out the similarities between the two candidates on foreign policy, writing that “it was more striking as a matter of substance that on virtually no issue did Romney make an actual criticism, of any sort, of Obama’s policy or record. Including topics where he used to disagree, like the timeline for withdrawal for Afghanistan! Instead it was, ‘I agree, but you should have done it better.’” <paragraph>  Meanwhile MSNBC’s Chris Matthews said Romney “had a strategy tonight — avoiding looking like a radical.” <paragraph> “Avoiding the statements he’s made throughout the primaries and caucuses that put him on the far right, in terms of looking a bit dangerous. He pulled back, pulled back, pulled back,” the “Hardball” host said. <paragraph> And his MSNBC colleague Ed Schultz called the debate a win for Obama and blasted Romney as giving the “worst performance of any Republican candidate on foreign policy that I can ever remember.”   
Larry King says Gary Johnson should have been on stage with Mitt Romney and President Barack Obama — but the libertarian presidential nominee’s only chance to debate comes during the third party showdown that King will moderate on Tuesday. <paragraph>  The talk show host, who is moderating the Free & Equal Elections Foundation’s independent candidate debate, said he thinks any candidate who is on the ballot in at least 40 states should be invited to all the major sanctioned debates. <paragraph>   “I would say if you’re on the ballot in 40 states, you should be in the debates,” King told POLITICO. “And Gary Johnson is, and therefore in my opinion he should have been in these debates. You’re on the ballot in 40 states, absolutely.” <paragraph>  King said he realizes the issues the debate commission and the TV networks would face if they invited every independent candidate — “I mean what are you going to do, are you going to have eight candidates on running for president?” <paragraph>  And King agreed to moderate the Tuesday event in order to give all the independent candidates “a voice” they’ve been denied thus far in the 2012 campaign, he said. For the independent candidates who have confirmed they’ll attend the Chicago debate — Johnson, Green Party candidate Jill Stein, Constitution Party candidate Virgil Goode and Justice Party candidate Rocky Anderson — this is their sole chance to present their platforms to voters on a major stage. <paragraph>  Viewers can tune into the third party debate on Tuesday night at 8 p.m. EST on C-SPAN, Al Jazeera English and Russia Today, and streamed online at Ora TV and on the Free & Equal debate site. <paragraph>  “I think they deserve a voice,” King said of the third-party candidayes. “It’s obvious they’re not going to win, but in the Constitution it never says there’s a Democrat or a Republican Party. It never mentions a two-party system. We’ve had Federalist presidents, Whig presidents. … We’ve always had independent candidates. They deserve a voice and they haven’t had a voice in this campaign at all.” <paragraph>  But will King vote for one of the independent candidates he’ll question Tuesday night? <paragraph>  “No, this time around I will not vote for an independent candidate,” King said. “I never say who I’m voting for, but I think they should be heard, they have a right to be heard, they have issues that should be brought up. For example, the war on drugs has never been mentioned in this campaign. That’s an important issue.”  
Abroad, much to dislike at debate | Media organizations around the world covered Monday’s final presidential debate in-depth, zeroing in on whether Mitt Romney and President Barack Obama appropriately addressed both America’s relationship with their own countries and the United States’s role on the world stage. <paragraph>  Iran’s state-run Press TV led its news story by stating that both candidates “pledged commitment to the Israeli regime’s interests.” Romney and Obama each “expressed strong support for Israel, the only possessor of nuclear arms in the Middle East” as they falsely characterized Iran’s own nuclear program, Iran’s Press TV wrote. <paragraph> “They accused Iran of seeking nuclear weapons despite the fact that the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has never found any evidence of diversion in Tehran’s nuclear energy program toward military purposes. The Islamic Republic has repeatedly stated that its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes,” the state-run media wrote on its website. <paragraph> China’s state news agency Xinhua wrote in its news article on the debate that “with their fate hung in the air in a dead heat campaign, U.S. President Barack Obama and his Republican foe Mitt Romney Monday night spared no effort to flail one another on foreign policy issues.” Obama “pummeled his challenger relentlessly over his inconsistencies on foreign policy.” <paragraph> And in the column “China Voice,” Xinhua writer Liu Jie said both Romney and Obama “framed China as a partner for the first time, offering a speck of belated comfort as the country had been portrayed as a monetary cheat and a job thief in their previous face-offs” — but that overall, the presidential debate “has fallen into a vanity fair for China-bashers who compete to denigrate China, which in fact has little to do with China but everything to do with the losing competitiveness of the world’s superpower.” <paragraph> “A few relieving words, however, are quickly overshadowed by traditional campaign tricks of scapegoating and ill-grounded hypotheses,” Liu Jie wrote. “The U.S. president-in-waiting, no matter who is elected, lacks deep understanding of how partners should treat each other.” <paragraph>  “They have relentlessly blamed China to cover up their own inabilities to put the domestic economy on track, regardless of the truth,” Liu Jie added. “The tactic only serves to reveal that the world’s superpower, indeed or temporarily, is running out of ways to sort out the real problems. Bashing China is a much easier and more convenient foil to score political gains.” <paragraph> Meanwhile, in the Middle East, Israeli journalist and political analyst Chemi Shalev, the U.S. foreign correspondent for the left-leaning Haaretz newspaper, blasted Romney in his column “West of Eden” as the “Etch-a-Sketch” candidate who brought “expedient political reconfiguration to new and dizzying heights” during the debate.  <paragraph> “Two weeks before the elections, it now turns out that Romney is actually a lovey-dovey peace on earth kind of candidate who agrees with President Barack Obama on just about everything: on Iraq, on Afghanistan, on Egypt, on Syria, on the use of drones against terrorists as well as crippling sanctions against Iran’s nuclear program,” Shalev wrote.  
Steve Coll joins Pulitzer Prize Board | New Yorker writer Steve Coll, Miami Herald executive editor Aminda “Mindy” Marqués Gonzalez and playwright Quiara Alegría Hudes have been elected to the Pulitzer Prize Board, Columbia University announced Tuesday. <paragraph> Coll, who has written seven books, joined the New Yorker in 2005 after 20 years with The Washington Post. He is a two-time winner of the Pulitzer Prize — he first won in 1990, for Explanatory Reporting, for a series of articles with David A. Vise about the Securities and Exchange Commission and again in 2005, this time for General Nonfiction for his book “Ghost Wars: The Secret History of the C.I.A., Afghanistan, and Bin Laden, From the Soviet Invasion to September 10, 2001.” Marqués Gonzalez serves as the vice president and executive editor of The Miami Herald. She started her journalism career as an intern at The Herald and has spent her journalism career — save for a five-year stint as Miami bureau chief for People magazine — at the paper as a reporter and editor. <paragraph> Hudes won the Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 2012 for “Water by the Spoonful.” <paragraph>  There are 19 members of the board, which is made up of journalists and news executives, as well as five academics or people involved in the arts. The chair rotates annually and voting members can serve a maximum of nine years.  
AP, networks change exit poll strategy | TV networks and The Associated Press are changing their election night exit poll system in order to save money and account for increased early voting, according to a report. <paragraph> Exit polling will be limited in 19 states for the consortium of media organizations made up of the AP, ABC, CBS, CNN, Fox News Channel and NBC, the AP reported <hyperlink>. The consortium announced that while it is reducing in-person exit polls, telephone polling will be increased this year in order to compensate for the rise in early voting and cell phone use. <paragraph>  “To save money this year, the consortium is doing bare bones exit polling in 19 states,” the AP's David Bauder wrote. “Enough voters will be questioned in those states to help predict the outcome of races, but not enough to draw narrative conclusions about the vote — what issues mattered most to women voting for Mitt Romney, for instance, or how many Catholics voted for Barack Obama.” <paragraph>  The AP notes that the affected states are Alaska, Arkansas, Delaware, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Kentucky, Louisiana, Nebraska, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, West Virginia and Wyoming, as well as D.C. Some states that are not presidential battlegrounds will get a full exit poll, such as in the case of Massachusetts with its close Senate race. <paragraph>  The consortium did not release spending figures, according to the AP, but did announce it will interview 25,000 voters this year. In 2008, 18,000 voters were polled.   
N.Y. Times covers CEO's role in BBC sex abuse scandal | The New York Times is up with a new story on Mark Thompson, the embattled former BBC head and incoming president and CEO of The New York Times Co. <paragraph> The article — "British Parliament Questions Former BBC Chief’s Role <hyperlink> "  — details the shift in public statements from Thompson regarding what and when he knew about the BBC’s Jimmy Savile sexual abuse investigation. The Times, which sat down with the former BBC director general on Tuesday, also featured another interview in Wednesday's piece about his knowledge of the spiked ”Newsnight” program.  “At no point does either Caroline [Hawley, the journalist who told him of the investigation in 2011] or the senior news managers ever specify exactly what is in the ‘Newsnight,’ what lines of inquiry they’re adopting or what was alleged,” he told the Times. “There was no detail given at all. Neither before that period or after that period did anyone raise complaints. I knew about its existence. But I was told, however, the program decided to stop it.” <paragraph> "I was not given any detail of what the program had been investigating," he added. <paragraph> Thompson also noted that “I can’t remember one where I was notified or briefed. There wasn’t a single example of ‘Newsnight’ referring programs that they got so high that they were referred to the director general.” <paragraph> The article mentioned the parliamentary hearing Tuesday that "featured an uncomfortable and apologetic George Entwistle, the current director general" and detailed the letters sent from members regarding Thompson's role, including one from former BBC producer Roger Gale that said Thompson was paid “to, apparently, not know what was going on under his own roof.”  <paragraph> As for whether Thompson will testify, John Whittingdale, the chairman of the parliamentary committee that held the hearing told the Times, "At the moment, we’re told he had no knowledge of the ‘Newsnight’ investigation. If reasons arise to talk to him, we will do so."  
Nocera questions Mark Thompson hire | The New York Times’s Joe Nocera pointedly asks in his Tuesday column if incoming New York Times chief executive Mark Thompson, who is facing questions over the BBC’s Jimmy Savile sexual abuse scandal, is right for the job. <paragraph>  In his column <hyperlink> , Nocera lays out the timeline of Thompson’s public statements on what he knew and when about the spiked Savile investigation and asks whether The New York Times Co. made the right call with this hire. Thompson is set to start his new gig as the president and CEO of The New York Times Co. on Nov. 12. <paragraph>  (Also on POLITICO: N.Y. Times covers CEO's role in BBC sex abuse scandal <hyperlink> ) “His nameplate is already on his office door. He is getting to know Times employees. Yet, since early October, all anybody has asked about Thompson are those two most damning of questions: What did he know, and when did he know it?” Nocera wrote. <paragraph>  The various statements Thompson has made <hyperlink>— that he was not briefed on the investigation and had no knowledge of it being killed, although he later said a reporter briefly informed him of it in December 2011 — are worrisome, Nocera wrote. <paragraph> “Thompson winds up appearing willfully ignorant, and it makes you wonder what kind of an organization the BBC was when Thompson was running it — and what kind of leader he was. It also makes you wonder what kind of chief executive he’d be at The Times,” he wrote. <paragraph> (Also on POLITICO: NYT CEO addresses BBC sex abuse scandal  <hyperlink>) New York Times Co. Chairman “Arthur Sulzberger is in a difficult spot,” he noted. Sulzberger, who declined Nocera’s interview request, “appears to have accepted Thompson’s insistence that he knew nothing about the explosive allegations that became public literally 50 days after he accepted the Times job. Sulzberger is backing his man unreservedly.” <paragraph> “For the sake of Times employees — not to mention the readers who want to see a vibrant New York Times Company — let’s hope his faith in Thompson is warranted. Otherwise, the BBC won’t be the only organization being asked tough questions about its judgment,” Nocera wrote. <paragraph>  
Sandy crashes BuzzFeed, Gawker, HuffPo | Hurricane Sandy took down BuzzFeed, The Huffington Post, Mediaite and Gawker on Monday night as the storm ripped through New York City. <paragraph> Datagram — the Internet service provider these media groups use to host their websites — was flooded, causing the outage, an official told BuzzFeed last night. <paragraph>  “Basement flooded, fuel pump off line — we got people working on it now. 5 feet of water now,” the official wrote, according to BuzzFeed’s Tumblr <hyperlink> . <paragraph>  BuzzFeed, which is telling users today on its front page that it is “recovering from Sandy” as its main page isn’t updated, is using Tumblr, Twittter and Facebook to provide content. <paragraph>  BuzzFeed editor in chief Ben Smith wrote to staffers on Monday night that “we're having some hurricane related issues with our servers, but that shouldn't prevent us from getting up the great content we are trying to get up this evening. … We will, I hope, switch back to buzzfeed soon, but no point waiting.” <paragraph>  Meanwhile, The Huffington Post’s communications director Rhoades Alderson told Poynter <hyperlink> that “our data center, our backup data center, and its three data providers all failed overnight due to Sandy.” “The HuffPost and Aol tech teams are working closely with them to restore service. In the meantime, we’re redirecting to a simple Blogsmith page with all of our breaking news — one power vertical — until we’re back up,” Alderson wrote to Poynter. <paragraph>  On Monday, Gawker tweeted <hyperlink> the site was “temporarily down because the 57th Street Crane just flooded our servers with sea foam, or something. Back with you shortly” — but today,Gawker told readers  <hyperlink>via Twitter that “we're posting on old-school Gawker this morning while our server recovers from the storm. Come join: live.gawker.com.” <paragraph>  And Mediaite tweeted <hyperlink> to readers last night it was also temporarily down, but has had no further updates.  
WaPo: Paper declines amid company growth | The Washington Post Co. reported higher earnings in its third quarter, but the newspaper division had declines in advertising and circulation, according to a report on Friday. <paragraph>  Newspaper and online news revenue dropped four percent to $137.3 million and print advertising fell 11 percent to $51.4 million, The Washington Post reported <hyperlink>. The revenue from online ventures such as Slate and washingtonpost.com, however, jumped 13 percent to $26.9 million, and online ad display revenue went up 18 percent. <paragraph>  The division had an operating loss of $21.8 million, although the Post noted “that figure included a non-cash pension expense of $16.2 million.” <paragraph>  The Post did not issue its circulation figures for the third-quarter, but the paper stated it “continued to slide.” The Post noted one positive figure — there was a nine percent drop in newsprint costs. <paragraph>  The company’s broadcast division was most successful, and political advertising went up $15.6 million, the Post reported. <paragraph>  Revenue for the third quarter was flat at $1.01 billion, and overall, the company reported a profit of $93.8 million, or $12.64 a share. A year ago this quarter, the company reported a loss of $6.2 million, or 82 cents a share. After operation costs, restructuring at Kaplan and the newspaper and other charges, the company had a net income of $44.7 million, or $6.03 per share, a boost from the figures from a year ago at $12.6 million, or $1.59 per share.   
NYT public editor: Silver bet 'bad idea' | The New York Times' public editor Margaret Sullivan says Nate Silver's offer to bet on the winner of the presidential election was a “bad idea” that gives “ammunition to the critics” who want to paint him as a partisan. <paragraph>  Silver, the Times’ political statistician, bet MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough  <hyperlink> $1,000 — and then $2,000 — that President Barack Obama would win the election. Sullivan blasted the wager in an afternoon column headlined "Under Attack, Nate Silver Picks the Wrong Defense <hyperlink> ." <paragraph>  “But whatever the motivation behind it, the wager offer is a bad idea – giving ammunition to the critics who want to paint Mr. Silver as a partisan who is trying to sway the outcome,” Sullivan wrote. “It’s also inappropriate for a Times journalist, which is how Mr. Silver is seen by the public even though he’s not a regular staff member. <paragraph>  Silver, who spoke with Sullivan by phone Thursday, said the wager is “half playful and half serious.” <paragraph>  “He’s been on a rant, calling me an idiot and a partisan, so I’m asking him to put some integrity behind it,” he told Sullivan. “I don’t stand to gain anything from it; it’s for charity.” <paragraph>  That’s not how Sullivan sees it: the move was "inappropriate for a Times journalist, which is how Mr. Silver is seen by the public even though he’s not a regular staff member," she writes. Times’ associate managing editor for standards Philip Corbett told Sullivan that “I wouldn’t want to see it become newsroom practice.” <paragraph> Sullivan added that when Silver — “probably” the Times’ “most high-profile writer at this particular moment”— came to work at the paper, he “gained a lot more visibility and the credibility associated with a prominent institution.” <paragraph> “But he lost something, too: the right to act like a free agent with responsibilities to nobody’s standards but his own,” she wrote.   
Sulzberger: BBC scandal 'hasn’t made things easy' | New York Times Co. chairman Arthur Sulzberger Jr. said chief executive Mark Thompson's connection to the BBC's Jimmy Savile sexual abuse scandal "hasn’t made things easy," according to a report. <paragraph> “The British stuff hasn’t made things easy,” Sulzberger told Bloomberg News <hyperlink> on Tuesday night. “But Mark is a good man.” <paragraph>  Thompson, who is facing questions over his role at the BBC concerning the Jimmy Savile sexual abuse scandal <hyperlink> , started his new gig at the Times on Nov. 12. Sulzberger, who did not elaborate on the "British stuff," added that he was pleased to finally have the CEO position filled, Bloomberg News reported. “We are very happy to have him in the position after all that time,” he said. <paragraph>  Controversy continues to swirl around Thompson, formerly BBC director general, who has said he was not involved <hyperlink>  in killing the BBC “Newsnight” investigation into Savile. He has said he was not briefed on the investigation and had no knowledge of it being spiked, although he later said a reporter briefly informed him of it in December 2011.  
Twitter suspends, reactivates 'NYT On It' account after Times complaint | Twitter has now restored the popular New York Times parody account it suspended on Monday after the Times filed a complaint against it. <paragraph>  Benjamin Kabak, the 29-year-old lawyer behind the account, told POLITICO that Twitter reenabled the account Tuesday morning but threatened him with permanent deletion if they receive another complaint. Kabak removed the account avatar, the reason for the Times' complaint, and is opening a design contest to replace the canned icon. <paragraph>  The @NYTOnIt account — which pokes fun at some lifestyle and trend stories in the Times — had over 20,000 followers prior to its suspension and is known for tweets such as this one from Nov. 13: “GUYS, there are *gasp* fake profiles on Facebook, and The Times is ON IT.http://nyti.ms/TDt1ut ". The Twitter bio read: “Because sometimes stories in newspapers are just *that* obvious." It also now includes the added statement, "This is a parody account clearly not associated with any newspaper." <paragraph> “Twitter has suspended my account over a claim from The Times that my avatar violates a trademark,” Kabak wrote Monday night on The Times Is On It Facebook page <hyperlink> . “I say fair use. Right now, I'm waiting for Twitter to process my request to fix the problem so I can get the account reenabled. But feel free to spread the word over how the country's largest newspaper feels threatened by a small Twitter account right now.” Times spokesperson Eileen Murphy wrote in an e-mail to POLITICO on Tuesday that “this is not about feeling ‘threatened.’” <paragraph> “We did file a complaint with Twitter and it is our understanding that they have suspended this account for a violation of Twitter's terms of service,” Murphy wrote. “This is not about feeling ‘threatened.’ However, it is important to The Times that our copyright is protected and that it is clear to all users of Twitter that parody accounts or other unofficial Times accounts are not affiliated nor endorsed by The Times.” <paragraph>   Murphy wrote in a follow-up email to clarify that "this is really a trademark issue, not a copyright issue. My earlier note used copyright where I should have said trademark." <paragraph> abak also noted on Facebook that “I have filed an appeal with Twitter so I may remove the materials they claim are problematic.” <paragraph> “They say, ‘We are usually able to respond within a few days, but some issues may take longer.’ A few days for something that isn't actually legally infringing seems particularly egregious. We'll see how long that takes," he wrote. <paragraph>  Kabak told POLITICO he had gotten a “heads-up” email from someone on Monday that the Times was likely to file a complaint with Twitter. He then posted a message asking that anyone who felt he was doing something wrong with the account contact him offline so he could deal with the situation. Kabak, however, later received an email from Twitter that his account was “temporarily suspended.” Kabak said he immediately replied to the email saying he wanted to correct the situation, but noted that although he could sign into his account, he could not make any of the changes Twitter said he needed to make regarding the avatar. <paragraph> Kabak said a few people at the Times “who know I am behind the account and have been fans of it for a while” reached out to him after the suspension, but he said he was not contacted directly by anyone in the legal department at the Times. <paragraph> Kabak, who said he started the account on a "whim" last summer after making jokes on his personal Twitter about certain lifestyle stories in the paper, said his dealings with Twitter and the Times left him unimpressed with the respective ways they handled his situation. <paragraph> "I think this is not a particularly great reflection on the Times’ process or Twitter’s process because it’s not particularly transparent," Kabak told POLITICO just moments before the account was restored. "They pulled down the account without really finding out the information from me."   
Nate Silver on 'Morning Joe': Why pollsters got it wrong | <video> <paragraph> New York Times statistician Nate Silver stopped by MSNBC's “Morning Joe" on Tuesday to discuss how he got it right this election when so many others didn’t. <paragraph>  Host Joe Scarborough — who during the campaign questioned Silver for calling the race decisively <hyperlink>  for President Barack Obama — kicked off the sit-down by addressing their infamous bet. <hyperlink> “We didn't bet because we love humanity too much to bet, but I think we gave money and we made a contribution, in Nate’s name, to AmeriCares,” Scarborough said. <paragraph>  After Scarborough joked that “the first thing I want to do — before your apology to me — is let’s sell books,” Silver discussed why so many polls were wrong this year and incorrectly called it as a much closer race for Mitt Romney. Silver said most of the major network polls — NBC/Wall Street Journal, ABC/Washington Post, CBS/New York Times — are “pretty good," while the polls that faltered made too many assumptions about the population. <paragraph> “I think that high-quality polling really differentiates itself now because if you take an automated poll, you miss people who have cellphones, which is about a third of the population now,” Silver said. “And they're mostly younger urban demographic, mostly Democrats, so you will undersample Democrats, to use that buzzword, if you don't call people who have cellphones. And lo and behold, those polls had a Republican bias this year. Not because the pollsters are evil partisan, but because, hey, if you miss a big chunk of the population that's Democratic-leaning, you're going to have problems.” <paragraph>  The best pollsters, Silver said, “let the sample tell you what it is by themselves.” The ones who didn’t “put their finger on the scale” and didn’t make assumptions about the voting public were most successful. <paragraph> “Just going with what the data said instead of making assumptions is usually the best practice whenever you're doing any kind of scientific survey and that worked again this year,” Silver said. <paragraph>  As for Romney, Silver called the Republican a "B-, C+ candidate" with an “adequate" campaign that just couldn’t cut it against the powerful advantage held by an incumbent president. <paragraph> “I think Neil Newhouse, the pollster there, I think those guys are pretty smart guys with a frankly, B-, C+ candidate, ran a pretty close campaign,” Silver said. <paragraph>   But it’s already time to look past this cycle, Silver said. <paragraph> “I’m a pro-horserace guy. I’m more interested in diagnosing 2016 now than Benghazi, for example, because that’s where my bread is buttered,” Silver said. “But if you’re going to do horserace, then do it the right way because it can be more data driven.” <paragraph> ack in late October, Scarborough had blasted Silver’s statistical process. <paragraph>  And anybody that thinks that this race is anything but a tossup right now is such an ideologue, they should be kept away from typewriters, computers, laptops and microphones for the next 10 days, because they're jokes,” Scarborough said on “Morning Joe.” <paragraph>   As the interview wrapped on Tuesday, Scarborough, who noted earlier in the show he had predicted an Obama win, invited Silver to come back after the pair joked about sports.   
CHC: NYT's Douthat 'reaffirms the obvious reasons' GOP lost Latinos | The Congressional Hispanic Caucus on Monday blasted The New York Times’ Ross Douthat’s new column as a "rambling piece which reflects his lack of understanding of the diverse Latino community and reaffirms the obvious reasons that Republicans lost Latino support.” <paragraph>  CHC chair Charlie Gonzalez took aim at Douthat for writing in his Sunday column “The Liberal Gloat <hyperlink> ” that one of the major reasons Democrats are winning the support of recent immigrants is “because those immigrants often aren’t assimilating successfully — or worse, are assimilating downward, thanks to rising out-of-wedlock birthrates and high dropout rates.” <paragraph>  “The Democratic edge among Hispanics depends heavily on these darker trends: the weaker that families and communities are, the more necessary government support inevitably seems,” Douthat wrote. <paragraph>  “Hispanics are not a separate part of America,” Gonzales said in a statement responding to the op-ed column. “We are engaged in every facet of American society and successful Latinos ensure a more prosperous America.  To say that Latinos are assimilating downward is to ignore the obvious facts.” <paragraph>  The Texas representative noted that “immigrants do not come to this country out of laziness. They come to work toward a better life and no one can question the work ethic of Latinos.” <paragraph>“Latinos seek assimilation, which requires equality with and inclusion in the dominant and established American community. The Republican agenda and policies offered neither and that's why Latinos voted for the Democratic candidates,” the CHC chair added. “The Latino story is the American story. It’s a simple lesson, but one that some conservatives, such as Mr. Douthat, are still learning.” <paragraph>  Douthat has not yet responded to a request for comment.   
ABC's Tapper on 'The Outpost,' Petraeus |  <video>  <paragraph> ABC’s Jake Tapper stopped by POLITICO LIVE on Wednesday to discuss his new book “The Outpost." <paragraph> Tapper, ABC News’ senior White House correspondent, said he was watching the news in 2009, just after his son was born, when he caught a report about an “unbelievable attack” on Combat Outpost Keating. <paragraph>  They faced down 400 Taliban,” he said. “And it was weird because I was holding my son and hearing about eight other sons being taken from this world. And it became a mystery that I wanted to solve — why would anybody put a base there, who were these guys, what’s it like to be in such a precarious and vulnerable place facing this onslaught from Taliban fighters? And it became a real mission and cause for me, and it became this book three years later.” <paragraph>  Tapper also addressed the David Petraeus scandal, telling POLITICO he didn’t hear any rumblings of an affair while he was reporting. “These guys were a world away,” Tapper. <paragraph> “To think about Petraeus bringing Paula Broadwell with him to Afghanistan in the context of what these guys went through in my book — it’s just unbelievable,” he said. “And it also makes me offended because, why was he bringing a biographer with him? Why wasn’t he bringing somebody to write this book, my book, telling the story of the troops?” <paragraph> “It’s just so narcissistic,” Tapper said. <paragraph> While Tapper noted he had covered the war in Afghanistan before taking on the project, “it was from the comfort of the North Lawn of the White House.” <paragraph> “It was debating troop levels, 10,000, 40,000, you know, and those numbers, in retrospect, we bat them around in this town. It’s kind of cold,” he said. <paragraph>  “This book focuses on a battle in which there are eight guys who are killed,” he added. “And I could rattle off their names right now. Behind every one of those guys there’s a grieving mom or widow or brother or sister, or a child who will never know their dad. Those numbers now mean much more to me than 40,000, 30,000, and I think I have a much richer understanding of war.”  
Newspaper disciplines copy editor for adding 'allegedly' to 'Obama was born in Hawaii' | The Montana Independent Record disciplined a copy editor for changing a line in an Associated Press story to read "Obama was allegedly born in Hawaii." <paragraph>  The change appeared in the Sunday edition of the Helena newspaper in an AP story about President Barack Obama's visit to Asia. The line in the Independent Record read: “The Asia trip underscores Obama’s efforts to establish the United states as an Asia-Pacific power, a worldview defined by 21st century geopolitics but also by Obama’s personal identity as America’s first Pacific president. Obama was allegedly born in Hawaii.” <paragraph>  Retired AP staffer Tom Laceky, who worked in the Helena bureau for 28 years, pointed out the addition of "allegedly" in a letter to the editor on Tuesday  <hyperlink> . <paragraph>  "'Allegedly born in Hawaii?' As if there is any doubt? That right-wing notion has been so thoroughly discredited that only Donald Trump and assorted other loonies still cling to it. Neither the AP nor -I hope - The Independent Record belongs in their company," Laceky wrote. <paragraph> Another reader also wrote in <hyperlink>  to share their disappointment with the edit of the AP piece. <paragraph> In an editor's note <hyperlink> , the newspaper wrote that it was a "poor attempt at humor and a poor decision" and that "those responsible have been disciplined":    
NYT CEO addresses BBC sex abuse scandal | Mark Thompson — the incoming president and CEO of The New York Times Company who is currently facing questions about what he knew of the BBC’s Jimmy Savile sexual abuse investigation — gave an interview to the paper Tuesday saying that "there is nothing to suggest that I acted inappropriately in the handling of this matter."  <paragraph>  Earlier on Tuesday, The New York Times’ public editor Margaret Sullivan  <hyperlink>  called for the publication to “thoroughly” and aggressively report the story surrounding the BBC “Newsnight” program about Savile that was killed last year while Thompson served as BBC director general. “The Times might start by publishing an in-depth interview with Mr. Thompson exploring what exactly he knew, and when, about what happened at the BBC,” she wrote.  <paragraph>  Thompson, who is scheduled to start his new job on Nov. 12, sat down for an interview at the Times building Tuesday <hyperlink>  with reporters Christine Haughney and David Carr and said he was not involved in canceling the investigation. <paragraph>  “I talked to senior management in BBC News and reported the conversation I had at the party and asked was there a problem,” he told the Times, noting that he was informed the story was dropped “for journalistic reasons.” <paragraph> “There is nothing to suggest that I acted inappropriately in the handling of this matter. I did not impede or stop the ‘Newsnight’ investigation, nor have I done anything else that could be construed as untoward or unreasonable,” he added. <paragraph> In her post, Sullivan asked, “How likely is it that he knew nothing? A director general of a giant media company is something like a newspaper’s publisher. Would a publisher be very likely to know if an investigation of one of its own people on sexual abuse charges had been killed? The answer to that is not as easy as it sounds.” <paragraph> Meanwhile, on Wednesday, Reuters interviewed Thompson about the Times' support of him in the wake of the scandal.   <paragraph>  “I do not believe there is anything that I've done in relation to this matter which should in anyway impinge on my abilities to fully discharge the responsibilities I'll have at the New York Times," he told Reuters <hyperlink> .  "All of my colleagues here in the management team of the New York Times have been very supportive on this and more broadly as I prepare to take on the job," he said. "I've been very well supported as the incoming CEO of this company." <paragraph>  As for Thompson’s other public statements on the investigation, on Oct. 13 he told the Times <hyperlink> , "I was not notified or briefed about the Newsnight investigation, nor was I involved in any way in the decision not to complete and air the investigation.” Thompson added in his statement that “during my time as director general of the BBC, I never heard any allegations or received any complaints about Jimmy Savile." But, as The Guardian noted <hyperlink> , Thompson’s spokesman told the London-based Times that the first time the former BBC director general heard about the investigation was at a party in late 2011 from a journalist. The journalist said words to the effect that 'You must be worried about the Newsnight investigation,’” the spokesman said, according to the Guardian. "This was the first that Mark had heard about the investigation. The journalist did not go into what Newsnight was investigating. Mark did not respond at the party but did mention the conversation to senior colleagues in BBC News and asked if there was a problem with the investigation. He was told that Newsnight had begun an investigation into Savile but had decided to drop it for journalistic reasons.” <paragraph>   The spokesman told the Guardian there was “no contradiction” between the two statements. "Mark told the New York Times he was not briefed on the Newsnight investigation. He wasn't. As he made clear yesterday he was only made aware of the allegations relating to Jimmy Savile when ITV published pre-broadcast publicity regarding their documentary in recent weeks," the spokesman said. <paragraph> Thompson was at the BBC from 2004 to Sept. 2012.  
McCurry: Moderators have 'done a fine job' | Commission on Presidential Debates co-chair Mike McCurry on Monday praised the debates as “just what we wanted” and defended CNN’s Candy Crowley for “trying to move the program forward” in the last presidential showdown. <paragraph>  McCurry, former press secretary to President Bill Clinton, told Fox News’s Neil Cavuto that each of the moderators has “done a fine job.” <paragraph>  “The moderators have done a fine job, but when the two candidates are really talking about the issues and the moderator backs off and says this is your debate, because it’s about you and it’s not about me, that is the ideal,” McCurry said on “Your World with Neil Cavuto.” <paragraph> Cavuto then asked McCurry to address the dust-up over Crowley’s intervention on the Libya question. <paragraph> “Someone said, ‘Well, she unnecessarily was fact checking.’ My view of it, having sat there and I’ve heard her since, is that she got to a point where both candidates were just kind of repeating the same thing and she was saying, ‘Okay, he said it, so let’s move on,’” McCurry said. “She was trying to move the program forward. That was my opinion.” <paragraph> When Cavuto asked McCurry if that was her designated role in the debate, the commission co-chair replied, “We were very elastic in how we described the role. We said it was her job to facilitate a discussion.”   
Frontiers of campaign advertising | A new campaign ad making the rounds in a New York congressional race forces Internet users to type a candidate specific phrase — “right to choose” — if they want to change their password. <paragraph> The ad from Democrat Julian Schreibman’s media consultant J.J. Balaban for the NY-19 race against Republican Rep. Chris Gibson, functions like a CAPTCHA test to ensure that it’s a real person making the request rather than a computer program or spammer. In this case, before certain New York users can move to the reset password page, they’ll see the Schreibman ad and will have to enter the phrase connected with it. <paragraph>  The ad states “Chris Gibson opposes a woman’s ‘right to choose’” and asks the user to enter the quoted text — “right to choose.” The user cannot move on to change their password until they correctly enter the phrase, Balaban said. <paragraph>  “We have never heard of anyone doing this kind of advertising before, but it seemed like an innovative way to bolster what we are doing on TV that is uniquely targeted,” Balaban told POLITICO in an email. “We all learned in school that the best way to remember something is to write it down ... again and again. “<paragraph> The Web ad is running in “ZIP codes with high persuadable voters” on sites that include aol.com, NASDAQ.com, BHG.com and AmericanGreetings.com, he said. The campaign is centered around a TV spot  <hyperlink>  about women and health care that features several women speaking about Gibson’s policies. One woman states, “Gibson opposes a woman’s right to choose" and another says, “That’s not moderate, Mr. Gibson. That’s just wrong.” <paragraph>  The Web ad is "a unique tool the requires voters to write the issue we want them to remember,” Balaban said. <paragraph>“We're always looking for new ways of trying to get our client's message across, particularly in a year like this year in which there will be a high voter turnout. Also, a majority of NY19 is in the priciest TV market in the nation — New York City — so this is a cost-efficient way to support what we are doing on other mediums," he added.  
McMahon won't release Social Security specifics... because of the media | Connecticut GOP Senate candidate Linda McMahon on Thursday said the media is the reason she has not released any specifics about her Social Security plan, saying that reporters “bash” and demagogue any proposals,  according to a report. <paragraph>  During Thursday’s debate with Rep. Chris Murphy, McMahon said she has not discussed specifics about her Social Security plan thanks to the press, CT News Junkie reported  <hyperlink>. <paragraph>  “I’ve not talked about specifics when I’ve been on the campaign trail because they get demagogued and you have no opportunity at all when you go in and put the issues on the table to discuss them,” McMahon said. <paragraph>  After the debate ended, McMahon doubled down on the charge, pointing out to reporters that she was referring to them in that statement. <paragraph>  “Thanks to all of you folks in the media, you’re the ones who primarily do it and bash any of the suggestions that might be made to improve the Social Security, Medicare,” she said, according to CT News Junkie. <paragraph>  McMahon’s office has not yet responded to request for comment from POLITICO.  
Mitchell: Men at MSNBC make more money | <video> <paragraph> During an interview Thursday, Mitt Romney senior adviser Barbara Comstock told Andrea Mitchell <hyperlink> that “we know here at MSNBC the guys get paid more" — and the MSNBC host replied, “We certainly do.” <paragraph> Mitchell and Comstock were discussing the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act <hyperlink> on “Andrea Mitchell Reports” when the Romney adviser said MSNBC has issues with fair pay for men and women. “I mean for Lilly Ledbetter, this was not just a legal issue,” Mitchell said. “This was the fact that she was not permitted to sue for equal pay because the statute had ran out and the law said if you didn't know the men you were working with were making more money, which many of us don't know, we don't have access to those confidential —“ <paragraph>  (Also on POLITICO: Equal pay surfaces in debate) <hyperlink>  “We know here at MSNBC the guys get paid more,” Comstock jumped in, laughing. “We know that.” <paragraph>   “We certainly do,” Mitchell replied. <paragraph>  “So this is one of the places where you need to be a little bit more public with it,” Comstock said. <paragraph>  As the interview wrapped, Comstock again brought up the issue of fair pay at MSNBC. <paragraph>  “You get after MSNBC here, Andrea,” Comstock said. “Make sure the women make the same here.” <paragraph>  “Thank you very much,” Mitchell replied. <paragraph> UPDATE: (4:03 p.m.): Andrea Mitchell tells POLITICO, “I was referring to the industry as a whole. This remark has been taken out of context.” <paragraph>  MSNBC spokeswoman Lauren Skowronski adds, "We take this issue very seriously and I can tell you that we're proud of the gender equality at MSNBC."  
Paper reports McGovern dead, apologizes | The Sioux Falls Argus Leader apologized Thursday for posting a story inaccurately announcing that former Sen. George McGovern had died. <paragraph> The paper — in McGovern’s home state of South Dakota — said the story was accidently published on the Argus Leader website due to a technical error. <paragraph>  “A software company that searches the content of websites operated by the Gannett Corporation, including the Argus Leader, detected an unpublished story in the Argus Leader content management system and created a link to the McGovern story without permission,” the paper wrote <hyperlink> . “That link was automatically placed on an unrelated story today on the Argus Leader’s website, which a reader then posted to the social media site Twitter, which was seen and distributed by other users of Twitter and other social media sites.” The paper got in touch with the reader and the posting was deleted. The Argus Leader also deleted the story and had the link broken. <paragraph>  “Argus Leader Media apologizes to the McGovern family and our readers for this error,” the paper said. <paragraph>  McGovern’s family announced this week that the 1972 Democratic presidential candidate was admitted to a hospice in Sioux Falls, and his daughter Ann issued a statement Wednesday saying that the 90-year-old is “no longer responsive” in hospice care.   
Seattle Times Co. buys full-page campaign ad | The Seattle Times Co. purchased a full-page ad in Wednesday’s newspaper supporting Republican gubernatorial candidate Rob McKenna. <paragraph>  The ad is part of an independent-expenditure campaign with no coordination between the paper and the campaign, according to a statement from The Seattle Times. The ad appears on page B6 and says McKenna is a “choice that will make us all proud” and praises the candidate’s time as Washington state’s attorney general. The advertisement states that “no candidate authorized this ad. It is paid for by The Seattle Times Company.” <paragraph>  The point of the ad, according to the company's press release? It's all part of an attempt to convince political campaigns of just how valuable advertising in The Times could be. <paragraph>  “In recent years, political consultants have not been placing many campaign ads in The Seattle Times, and we think they’re missing out on the most effective way to reach voters in the Puget Sound region,” said Alan Fisco, executive vice president, revenue and new products for The Seattle Times said in a statement.  “We decided to try to tap into this important source of advertising revenue by demonstrating how effective advertising with The Times can be.” <paragraph>  The company will also run a similar campaign supporting Referendum 74, which would legalize same-sex marriage. Fisco said that the two campaigns are a "a business decision that is completely separate from journalism functions of the newspaper. The ads will be clearly identified as ads and there is no intersection between the advertising and our editorial commentary or news reporting." <paragraph>   Seattle Times executive editor David Boardman told The Seattle Times’ Jim Brunner in an email that “the News Department was not part of the discussion or the decision to do this," according to Brunner's blog post. <paragraph>  The press release states that "in formulating the advertising initiative, The Times decided to feature one statewide candidate and one statewide issue for which polling showed to be fairly close races" and the races were chosen because the Times had editorialized in support of each one. <paragraph> Jay Inslee spokesperson Sterling Clifford blasted the decision to run the ad, telling POLITICO that “all Washingtonians should be disappointed that the state's largest newspaper has chosen to sacrifice its credibility as an independent news source.” <paragraph>  McKenna’s campaign has yet to return a request for comment. <paragraph> The Seattle Times editorial board endorsed McKenna <hyperlink>  and the same-sex marriage referendum.  UPDATE (4:20 p.m.) <paragraph>   The Seattle Times' spokesperson Jill Mackie told POLITICO that the paper's "editorial page editor and executive (news) editor were briefed as a heads up on the concept after the decision to proceed was made." <paragraph>  The McKenna ad "effort is scheduled to run at a value of just over $75,000 between today and the election. A similar value in in-kind space will be donated to the R74 (Marriage Equality) campaign," Mackie wrote in an e-mail.   
Ingraham, Todd debate Libya coverage | Conservative radio host Laura Ingraham and NBC’s Chuck Todd on Tuesday debated whether or not the White House press corps has pushed the Obama administration hard enough for answers to the violence in Libya. <paragraph>  Ingraham criticized the press for what she called its lack of “outcry” and “desire” to get to the bottom of the situation in Benghazi. <paragraph>  “Four Americans are dead, the president has failed to do a press conference on this,” Ingraham said on her radio show. “…You’re in that briefing room every day, and they send out Jay Carney every day, and meanwhile, the president has given interviews to ‘The Michael Yo! Show,’ has spent time with ‘The View,’ has spent time in Vegas, has spent time on the trail doing all these Hollywood events, and he does not have time to do a full-blown press conference on what happened when, and why the false narrative was sold when four Americans are dead.” <paragraph>  “And my question to you as one of the critical reporters — and we look to you, we really look to you for this — why, where is the outcry from the White House press corps and the desire to answer these questions?” Ingraham said. <paragraph>   “There is a ton of desire,” Todd replied, adding that “the fact that the president hasn’t sat down with a member of the White House press corps for any extended interview for over a year is their business. It’s certainly something that is not popular in the White House press room, if you will. But at the end of the day, media whining about access gets us, you know, it’s not so popular on either side.” <paragraph>  odd then addressed the congressional hearing on Libya, saying, “Let’s not pretend both sides aren’t playing a little politics here.” <paragraph>  “You think the intention was 100 percent to get to the bottom of this, or do you think there was some politics involved?” he asked. <paragraph>  “Well, this is what I will say to you,” Ingraham said. “Since apparently the White House press corps cannot get answers from this administration, I think the Republicans on Capitol Hill were figuring maybe they can get some answers.” <paragraph>   “Well, they have subpoena power, I don’t,” Todd jumped in. <paragraph>  You don’t have subpoena power, but you’re in that White House press briefing every day,” Ingraham said. <paragraph>   “Look, I know beating up on us is popular and it’s easy to do, but there’s only so much. We ask these questions every single day,” Todd said. <paragraph>  The idea that the press isn’t covering what happened in Libya is “unfair,” Todd told Ingraham. After all, he said, the reason the public finally has heard a play-by-play from the State Dept. is because of the press corps’ "browbeating." <paragraph>  “The fact is, the reason why we finally got a full tick-tock from the State Dept. is that every single day a bunch of us were calling to the State Dept., 'how come we don’t have a tick-tock? What happened here? What is your version? Nobody seems to understand, nobody seems to be able to explain it.' It takes a lot of browbeating,” he said. <paragraph>     
CQ Roll Call names new editorial director |  CQ Roll Call announced Monday that Susan Benkelman has officially become the publication’s editorial director. <paragraph>  Benkelman was named interim editorial director after Mike Mills left the post earlier this year, and CQ Roll Call executive vice president and managing director Keith White told staffers in an email that Benkelman starts immediately. <paragraph>  “Her deep understanding of our unique brand of congressional news and information coupled with her proven track record in transforming products will position us well as we continue to push ahead as the leader in digital news and information on Congress and public policy,” White wrote in an email obtained by POLITICO. <paragraph>  Benkelman joined CQ Roll Call in 1997 as social policy editor and later became assistant managing editor before joining The Washington Post for a year. She returned to the publication in 2001 as editor of the magazine and then was appointed executive editor for news, White wrote. <paragraph>  “Most recently, working closely with Meg Hargreaves, she has overseen the merging of our print dailies and the restructuring of the CQ Roll Call newsroom,” he noted.   
TiVo: '47 percent' exchange most-watched | The most-watched moment of Thursday’s vice presidential debate was the exchange between Vice President Joe Biden and Paul Ryan over Mitt Romney’s “47 percent” remarks, according to a report on Friday.  <paragraph> The first presidential showdown was noticeably missing any mention of the “47 percent” comments, but the remarks delivered the vice presidential debate’s most-watched moment, TiVo found in an analysis of viewership data across all broadcast and cable networks. Biden brought up the comments within the first half-hour of the debate — at 9:28 p.m. EST — when he talked about Romney’s economic policies and said “it shouldn't be surprising for a guy who says 47 percent of the American people are unwilling to take responsibility of their own lives.” The exchange with Ryan over those comments marked the top moment across all networks, TiVo found. <paragraph>  The second most-watched moment came just a few minutes later, at 9:33 p.m., with Biden responding to Ryan over the congressman’s requests for stimulus funds. "Any letter you send me, I'll entertain,” Biden said. Ryan replied, “I appreciate that, Joe.” <paragraph>  TiVo Research and Analytics Inc. uses anonymous viewing data and “gauges the interest in programming content by measuring the most rewound and re-watched moments in the debate.”  
