W.Va. GOP: Stop Obama, vote straight ticket |  <paragraph>   In a state where President Obama is deeply unpopular and unlikely even to crack 40 percent on Election Day, the West Virginia Republican Party is urging voters to punish Democrats up and down the ballot, not just the president, by voting a straight Republican ticket. <paragraph>   From a West Virginia GOP email today: “ Saving West Virginia's future begins with marking just one box on your electronic voting machine or paper ballot. A straight Republican ticket ensures you won't vote for anyone who has ever supported Barack Obama. Period. That's the message from the West Virginia Republican Party…   Many elected Democrats claim not to agree with Obama on all issues, but they never stepped in to stop him. Most every Democrat in the State Legislature voted for versions of the ObamaCare bill  or local Cap & Trade. Governor Tomblin and his cronies on the state Board of Public Works have proven to be loyal allies or endorsers of the Obama administration. Senator Manchin and Rep. Rahall take their marching orders directly from the Obama White House. Mitt Romney can't help West Virginia coal unless we help ourselves by electing local leaders like Bill Maloney as Governor and sending John Raese and Rick Snuffer to fortify our team in Washington. ”  <paragraph>   West Virginia is one of a declining number of states — 15 in all — that enables straight ticket voting, which allows voters to select a party’s entire slate of candidates with a single punch or mark on the ballot.  <paragraph>   There’s no real pattern to the list of states that still permit the practice — they’re red and blue, big and small, and spread across the map. The beneficiaries of the practice aren’t entirely obvious either — it depends on the state.  <paragraph>   There’s some irony in the West Virginia GOP’s call for a straight ticket vote — for years, it’s worked to the benefit of local Democrats.  <paragraph>   Still, it’s probably safe to assume that if straight ticket voting is going to have a significant impact this year it’s going to be in states like West Virginia or Utah, where the presidential vote is likely to be lopsided.