Finding fault, world media watches | From Asia to the Middle East to Europe, media organizations worldwide are anxiously awaiting the results of the U.S. presidential election, parsing what either a second term for President Barack Obama or a win by Mitt Romney would mean for their own countries.  <paragraph> China’s state news agency Xinhua wrote in its column “China Voice” that the election means there will “hopefully” be a “pause in the China-bashing game.” During the campaign, “pointing fingers at China became an easy and convenient way for the two candidates to score political gains while avoiding taking responsibility for mishandling the domestic economy.” <paragraph> “If scapegoating and vilifying China are merely campaign tricks, with the heated campaign drawing to an end, it is time for whoever the president-in-waiting is to tone down his tough rhetoric and adopt a more rational stance,” the Nov. 6 column stated. “Despite arguments, there is common sense between the United States and China. As the world’s largest and second-largest economies, they can not afford to grapple with the backlash of any severe confrontations in any arena.” <paragraph> The column calls for the U.S. to find opportunities to partner with China and keep open a “constructive dialogue.” <paragraph> “It is better for the next U.S. president, [whoever] he may turn out to be, to seize the historic chance to extend the partnership,” the column stated. <paragraph> In Israel, left-leaning Haaretz newspaper’s senior correspondent Amir Oren focused on the impact of a potential Obama win on upcoming Israeli elections. <paragraph> “This is Obama’s second chance, after four years of missed opportunities, to clarify which direction he wants to go on the Middle East, so that Israeli voters will know if they are voting for a prime minister who will be on track to clash with Obama from the get-go,” Oren wrote. <paragraph> “In addition to making intensive efforts to reach an Israeli-Palestinian accord, Obama can be expected to give Iran a clear choice: talks or combat aircraft. He won’t waste his second chance,” Oren added. 