Frontiers of campaign advertising | A new campaign ad making the rounds in a New York congressional race forces Internet users to type a candidate specific phrase — “right to choose” — if they want to change their password. <paragraph> The ad from Democrat Julian Schreibman’s media consultant J.J. Balaban for the NY-19 race against Republican Rep. Chris Gibson, functions like a CAPTCHA test to ensure that it’s a real person making the request rather than a computer program or spammer. In this case, before certain New York users can move to the reset password page, they’ll see the Schreibman ad and will have to enter the phrase connected with it. <paragraph>  The ad states “Chris Gibson opposes a woman’s ‘right to choose’” and asks the user to enter the quoted text — “right to choose.” The user cannot move on to change their password until they correctly enter the phrase, Balaban said. <paragraph>  “We have never heard of anyone doing this kind of advertising before, but it seemed like an innovative way to bolster what we are doing on TV that is uniquely targeted,” Balaban told POLITICO in an email. “We all learned in school that the best way to remember something is to write it down ... again and again. “<paragraph> The Web ad is running in “ZIP codes with high persuadable voters” on sites that include aol.com, NASDAQ.com, BHG.com and AmericanGreetings.com, he said. The campaign is centered around a TV spot  <hyperlink>  about women and health care that features several women speaking about Gibson’s policies. One woman states, “Gibson opposes a woman’s right to choose" and another says, “That’s not moderate, Mr. Gibson. That’s just wrong.” <paragraph>  The Web ad is "a unique tool the requires voters to write the issue we want them to remember,” Balaban said. <paragraph>“We're always looking for new ways of trying to get our client's message across, particularly in a year like this year in which there will be a high voter turnout. Also, a majority of NY19 is in the priciest TV market in the nation — New York City — so this is a cost-efficient way to support what we are doing on other mediums," he added.  