Foreign media eyes U.S. results | President Barack Obama’s victory over Mitt Romney took center stage at media organizations around the world on Wednesday as they assessed what Obama’s reelection spells for their own countries over the next four years.  <paragraph> In Israel, the left-leaning paper Haaretz wrote about Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu’s “election-night double whammy.” <paragraph> “He suffered a caustic and humiliating political double loss,” Haaretz’s Yossi Verter wrote. “It began with Naftali Bennett’s election as the new chairman of the right-wing Habayit Hayehudi party and ended with President Barack Obama’s reelection and the defeat of Netanyahu’s old friend Mitt Romney in the race for the White House.” <paragraph> And that means that Netanyahu “will pay the price” with his relationship with Obama. <paragraph> “The chilly and murky relationship between the current and next president and the current prime minister – who is also very likely to be the next prime minister – is well-known,” Verter wrote. “Netanyahu gambled on Romney. Netanyahu’s bet did not come in. Netanyahu will pay the price. How high will the cost be? How painful will it be? Obama will decide, at the time and place of his choosing. If he decides to meddle in our election campaign in some fashion, no one could blame him. Bibi started it.” <paragraph> And The Jerusalem Post put together a round-up of Israeli politicians’ responses to Obama’s victory, noting that Netanyahu “hosted US Ambassador Dan Shapiro at his Jerusalem office Wednesday to personally assure him that he wanted to work closely with US President Barack Obama.” Meanwhile, the Post wrote, “defense minister Ehud Barak issued his congratulatory statement even before Obama’s acceptance speech. According to Channel 2 reporter Udi Segal, he was the first to do so.” And President Shimon Peres wrote Obama a letter saying, “your success will be the success of us all.” <paragraph>  Kenya’s state-run media organization — Kenya Broadcasting Corporation — reported on the celebration in Kogelo, the hometown of Obama’s father. Family spokesperson Malick Abongo told journalists that “we did not want to celebrate or have any prior arrangement for that because the race was too tight, but now we can throw a party.” The village is planning to throw a feast to celebrate, KBC added. <paragraph> Reuters interviewed Romney’s Mormon relatives in Mexico, who the wire service wrote “mourned his presidential election defeat.” <paragraph> Just to let him slip away from being president of the United States is a real tragedy for the U.S. because he could have given the country so much,” Virginia Romney told Reuters. “He has been such a success in everything he has done.” <paragraph> China’s state news agency Xinhua reflected on the future of U.S.-Chinese relations in a commentary piece that never mentioned Obama. <paragraph> “China seeks to develop and engage with the international community in a peaceful way. It wants to build a new type of relationship — one defined by mutual benefit and cooperation — with major countries,” Xinhua wrote. “Whereas, there remains the antiquated attitude in which an emerging player is considered as a threat to established ones and should be suppressed. This mindset has led to much unrest and even world wars in the past, but has yet to be abandoned.”