Abroad, much to dislike at debate | Media organizations around the world covered Monday’s final presidential debate in-depth, zeroing in on whether Mitt Romney and President Barack Obama appropriately addressed both America’s relationship with their own countries and the United States’s role on the world stage. <paragraph>  Iran’s state-run Press TV led its news story by stating that both candidates “pledged commitment to the Israeli regime’s interests.” Romney and Obama each “expressed strong support for Israel, the only possessor of nuclear arms in the Middle East” as they falsely characterized Iran’s own nuclear program, Iran’s Press TV wrote. <paragraph> “They accused Iran of seeking nuclear weapons despite the fact that the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has never found any evidence of diversion in Tehran’s nuclear energy program toward military purposes. The Islamic Republic has repeatedly stated that its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes,” the state-run media wrote on its website. <paragraph> China’s state news agency Xinhua wrote in its news article on the debate that “with their fate hung in the air in a dead heat campaign, U.S. President Barack Obama and his Republican foe Mitt Romney Monday night spared no effort to flail one another on foreign policy issues.” Obama “pummeled his challenger relentlessly over his inconsistencies on foreign policy.” <paragraph> And in the column “China Voice,” Xinhua writer Liu Jie said both Romney and Obama “framed China as a partner for the first time, offering a speck of belated comfort as the country had been portrayed as a monetary cheat and a job thief in their previous face-offs” — but that overall, the presidential debate “has fallen into a vanity fair for China-bashers who compete to denigrate China, which in fact has little to do with China but everything to do with the losing competitiveness of the world’s superpower.” <paragraph> “A few relieving words, however, are quickly overshadowed by traditional campaign tricks of scapegoating and ill-grounded hypotheses,” Liu Jie wrote. “The U.S. president-in-waiting, no matter who is elected, lacks deep understanding of how partners should treat each other.” <paragraph>  “They have relentlessly blamed China to cover up their own inabilities to put the domestic economy on track, regardless of the truth,” Liu Jie added. “The tactic only serves to reveal that the world’s superpower, indeed or temporarily, is running out of ways to sort out the real problems. Bashing China is a much easier and more convenient foil to score political gains.” <paragraph> Meanwhile, in the Middle East, Israeli journalist and political analyst Chemi Shalev, the U.S. foreign correspondent for the left-leaning Haaretz newspaper, blasted Romney in his column “West of Eden” as the “Etch-a-Sketch” candidate who brought “expedient political reconfiguration to new and dizzying heights” during the debate.  <paragraph> “Two weeks before the elections, it now turns out that Romney is actually a lovey-dovey peace on earth kind of candidate who agrees with President Barack Obama on just about everything: on Iraq, on Afghanistan, on Egypt, on Syria, on the use of drones against terrorists as well as crippling sanctions against Iran’s nuclear program,” Shalev wrote.  