Feds: Hide SEAL name given to Hollywood |  <paragraph>  Last July,  <hyperlink> a top Pentagon official gave two Hollywood filmmakers the name of a Navy SEAL involved in training the squad of commandos who carried out the raid that killed Osama bin Laden. Now, the Obama administration is fighting to keep that same name from the public.  <paragraph>  In legal papers filed Friday in U.S. District Court in Washington, the Justice Department argued that the government is under no obligation to make public the SEAL's name or the names of Central Intelligence Agency personnel involved simply because officials shared their names, partial names or identities with the makers of a forthcoming movie about the raid, "Zero Dark Thirty."  <paragraph>  "The CIA and DoD did not authorize the filmmakers to make the names they shared with them public, to publicly associate the individuals with the CIA or DoD, or to expose those individuals’ identity in any publicly released film, and there was no reason for the CIA or DoD to have believed that any of this would have happened," the Justice Department brief says. "In fact, [Undersecretary of Defense for Intelligence Mike] Vickers specifically told [filmmaker] Mark Boal, in providing him with the name of someone he could talk to, that 'the only thing we ask is that you not reveal his name in any way as a consultant.'"  <paragraph>  "This limited disclosure of the names to the filmmakers does not make the information 'truly public' under the public domain doctrine," DOJ lawyers argue. "The filmmakers were not authorized to release the names publicly, and the names have not, to our knowledge, been released to the public."  <paragraph>  The brief (posted   <hyperlink> here) was filed in a lawsuit the conservative watchdog group Judicial Watch filed against the Defense Department and CIA seeking disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act of records about government cooperation with Hollywood's effort to bring the bin Laden raid to the big screen.  <paragraph>  The dispute over the names puts journalists in an awkward position. Press advocates generally favor broad disclosure under FOIA and a narrow reading of exemptions the government uses to hold back information requested under that law. However, journalists are often privy to the names of officials providing background briefings and sometimes are given sensitive or classified information on condition it not be disclosed. A strict rule that what's given to any outsider must be given to all could wind up restricting journalists' access to that kind of information.  <paragraph>  Generally, the government can't use exemptions from FOIA to withhold information it has officially disclosed elsewhere. However, for the government to lose its right to withhold the info, the previous disclosure has to be essentially identical (which usually makes the whole fight pointless) and part of some permanent public record.  <paragraph>  In the "Zero Dark Thirty" case, the Justice Department contends that even if the government released the name or names in question, it's irrelevant because the whole "public domain doctrine" doesn't apply in cases where personal privacy is at issue. However, the government did not cite any appellate cases in the D.C. Circuit to support that position. <paragraph>  A Pentagon spokesman told POLITICO  in May that while the filmmakers were offered the opportunity to meet with the SEAL raid planner, the meeting never took place. <paragraph>  "Zero Dark Thirty" is slated for release on Dec. 19.