Reid: A one-man Romney wrecking crew |  <paragraph>   Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid returned to his highly stylized Mitt Romney-bashing Monday in Nevada.  <paragraph>   While Reid’s attacks on Romney have been an ongoing pursuit, the stinging, personal nature of the criticism continues to stand out. Much of it is specific to Romney’s character — among other things, Reid has questioned the GOP nominee’s faith and insinuated he’s a tax cheat. It’s a level of disparagement that reaches beyond standard partisan character attacks, marked by especially blunt rhetoric for a Senate majority leader.    <paragraph>   From     <hyperlink>    the Las Vegas Sun report: “ Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid called himself a “one-man wrecking crew” on Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney’s refusal to release his tax returns and warned of “17 angry old white men” spending vast sums on political advertising as he tried to rouse Carson City to vote for Democratic Rep. Shelley Berkley and President Barack Obama.    <paragraph>   Reid told a packed room in Carson City on Monday that Romney was a “plastic man running for president who changes his position every chance he gets. He isn’t someone who should represent this country.” ”    <paragraph>   Reid and Romney’s shared Mormon faith makes the Nevada senator's scorched-earth approach all the more fascinating. At a time that’s being called "the Mormon moment" because of the historic nature of Romney’s candidacy — he’s the first Mormon major party nominee — and at a time when the former Massachusetts governor has overwhelming support among fellow members of the LDS Church, the nation’s other top Mormon in public life ranks as one of Romney’s harshest detractors.    <paragraph>   One byproduct of the strained relationship is that it expresses the spectrum of LDS political thinking to a nation that’s unfamiliar with it. But it also raises questions about     <hyperlink>    what kind of relationship the two could ever hope to have if Romney were to be elected president.