Broadwell spoke of access to classified info |   <paragraph>  <video>  <paragraph>  Paula Broadwell, the author, military reservist and West Point graduate who reportedly had an extramarital affair with former CIA director David Petraeus, told an audience this summer that she routinely had access to classified information while researching a book on Petraeus's work as the commanding general in Afghanistan.  <paragraph>  During a panel discussion, Broadwell said her background  in the military and her continuing obligations as a major in the Army Reserve made her particularly careful not to disclose sensitive information she was privy to while an "embed" in Afghanistan in 2010 and 2011.  <paragraph>  "I was entrusted with this opportunity to sit in on high level meetings with General Petraeus. Sitting in on SCIF [sensitive compartmented information facility] meetings in the morning, listen to classified chatter of terrorist talk and so forth. And I had that background anyhow, so I knew a lot of that information for my writing, but I knew there was a clear line that I couldn’t cross when I was writing it out," Broadwell said in   <hyperlink> the July 2012 discussion at the Aspen Security Forum in Colorado.  <paragraph>  (  <hyperlink> Also on POLITICO: Paula Broadwell in media spotlight)  <paragraph>  Broadwell acknowledged that her connection to the military and her role as a writer sometimes caused confusion among military personnel she encountered while working on the book.  <paragraph>  "I was embedded with Gen. Petraeus in Afghanistan and it was a little confusing for some of the folks there because I’m also a military reservist with a top secret/SCI clearance and then some. So, a lot of my former peers didn’t know how to treat me. Was I journalist Broadwell or was I Major Broadwell?" she recalled. "I had to follow very clear lines of non-disclosure and signed non-disclosure agreements like my colleagues. I felt like I was almost held to a higher level of accountability because I could lose my clearance."  <paragraph>  Broadwell's access to classified information has drawn scrutiny in the wake of reports that investigators found classified records on her computer and that a whistleblower approached House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.) recently to express concern that a relationship Petraeus had may have led to classified information being compromised. The discovery of the classified information on Broadwell's computer was   <hyperlink> reported by the Wall Street Journal on Sunday. The involvement of Cantor, whose staff said the information was immediately passed on to the FBI, was   <hyperlink> disclosed Saturday by the New York Times.  <paragraph>  Other news reports have also raised questions about Broadwell's access to classified information, including details related to the attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya in September.  <paragraph>  (  <hyperlink> Also on POLITICO: Critics question Petraeus's timing)  <paragraph>  In a speech last month at the University of Denver, Broadwell said that the CIA at one point was holding prisoners at an annex near the consulate, and that the assault may have been an effort to free those prisoners. "I don't know if a lot of you heard this, but the CIA annex had actually—had taken a couple of Libyan militia members prisoner and they think that the attack on the consulate was an effort to try to get these prisoners back. So, that's still being vetted," she said, according to a video of the Denver event posted online and first   <hyperlink> reported by the Israeli media outlet Arutz Sheva.  <paragraph>  Later in her remarks, Broadwell, said some of her information had come from a Fox News report.  <hyperlink> Fox said Monday that it's "original" Oct. 26 report did mention three Libyan militia members being turned over by the CIA to Libyan authorities. That detail   <hyperlink> does not appear in the version of the story now posted online, but Fox reporter Jennifer Griffin did include it in at least one report.  <paragraph>  "We're also told, those at the CIA annex took into custody three Libyan attackers and were forced to hand them over to the Libyan February 17th forces that came to help at the annex approximately 4:00 in the morning. They handed these three Libyans over. It is not clear from U.S. officials what happened to the libyans and whether those Libyan attackers were in fact released in in the end by the Libyans," Griffin reported.  <paragraph>  The CIA has denied holding any prisoners at Benghazi and has vigorously disputed other aspects of Griffin's report, but it's not clear Broadwell said anything in Denver that was not previously reported by Fox. (Griffin first issued her report at about 11 A.M. Eastern Time that day. Broadwell, per  <hyperlink> a D.U. schedule, spoke after 7 P.M. Mountain Time.)  <paragraph>  At the Aspen conference in July, panel moderator Clark Bell of the McCormick Foundation said "certain elements" of Broadwell's book, "All In: The Education of David Petraeus," underwent a pre-publication security review to scrub it of classified information.  <paragraph>  Journalists embedded with the military often have access to some classified information. The practice falls into a kind of gray area. Many embed assignments would be hard to undertake without knowing some sensitive information about tactics and upcoming operations. But, journalists don't have security clearances and are not subject to background investigations.  <paragraph>  (  <hyperlink> Also on POLITICO: 10 fast facts about Gen. Petraeus)  <paragraph>  In any event, Broadwell said she did not consider herself a journalist. In her remarks to the security professionals, journalists and government contractors at the Aspen event, she repeatedly used language that stressed how familiar she was with secret matters. During her relatively brief comments, she spoke of working for a Joint Terrorism Task Force, of her top secret clearance "and then some," and of familiarity with "Five Eyes" efforts—lingo for U.S. Government intelligence information shared only with Australia, New Zealand, Canada and the United Kingdom.  <paragraph>  While Broadwell stressed the access she had, she also said she was especially vigilant to not disclose any classified information because it would have been a breach of trust between her and Petraeus, whom she described as a mentor. <paragraph>  "Sometimes, obviously, the government just cant disclose sources and methods and so forth," she said. "That was just reinforced when I had access to everything, it was my responsibility not to leak it—not to violate my mentor, if you will. I was writing about a very close mentor."  <paragraph>  UPDATE (Monday, 1:45 P.M.): An earlier version of this post said Fox News did not appear to have reported that prisoners were taken by the CIA in Benghazi. Fox says it did report something similar to that on Oct. 26.  <paragraph>  UPDATE (Monday, 2:02 P.M.) We've located the original Fox quote and posted it above.