Secrecy rule eased in 9/11 case |  <paragraph>  Military prosecutors have agreed to ease secrecy in the case against five alleged Sept. 11 conspirators by ending a presumption that every word the defendants say is classified national security information, defense lawyers said Tuesday.  <paragraph>  "Presumptive classification violates American national security regulations, but it has prevailed for years at Guantanamo Bay,” said James Connell, an attorney for alleged conspirator Ammar al Baluchi. “Hopefully, this change of position will mark the beginning of the end of presumptive classification.”  <paragraph>  Defense attorneys have railed against the presumptive classification procedure, saying it unnecessarily complicated their dealings with their clients and the process for military commissions being carried out at Guantanamo Bay.  <paragraph>  Details of the decision are not publicly available, due to—wait for it—a presumption that all court filings could contain classified information and therefore are kept from the public while they await a classification review.  <paragraph>  However, in a statement, chief prosecutor Army Brig. Gen. Mark Martins seemed to confirm the gist of the defense's announcement.  <paragraph>  "As a general matter across all cases, I will say that the government is committed to considering every reasonable and appropriate measure that could help facilitate the attorney-client relationship for those accused before reformed military commissions who seek such a relationship.  This includes measures that, while safeguarding national security and force protection, may also increase the convenience of handling and use by the defense of discussions clients have with their counsel involving classified or potentially classified information," Martins said.  <paragraph>  It's not immediately clear whether the change of procedure will result in more information reaching the public in military commission legal filings or hearings. However, Connell said in an interview that the new process would make it easier for the defense to request and hold hearings on matters not directly related to the defendants' alleged offenses or role in terrorist activity. Defendants might be able to testify at some hearings without them being closed to the public.  <paragraph>  "It will likely have some impact on the transparency of the process," Connell said.  <paragraph>  Connell said it's unclear whether the decision will apply in cases beyond that arising from the Sept. 11 attacks. It does not apply at the moment to the military commission case related to the bombing of the U.S.S. Cole, he said.