Lawsuit filed over Florida early voting waits |  <paragraph>  The Florida Democratic Party filed a federal lawsuit early Sunday over the extended delays some south   <hyperlink> Florida voters faced during the last official day of early voting on Saturday, when some who turned out to vote waited as long as six hours to cast their ballots. (A copy of the complaint is posted   <hyperlink> here.)  <paragraph>  However, it's not clear what more can be done about the situation at this late date and the three counties the Democrats sued seem to be offering the only specific relief sought in the suit—allowing voters to vote in person at each county's central elections office through Tuesday. <paragraph>  Miami-Dade County election officials announced that they would allow in-person absentee voting on Sunday afternoon from 1 P.M. to 5 P.M. It's something of an end-run around the Florida legislature's effort to reduce early voting days to eight from a maximum of 14 previously. Democrats have complained about the changes, calling them a Republican effort to disenfranchise voters, especially attendees of black churches who had bussed parishoners to the polls on the Sunday before Election Day. Defenders of the changes said the 14 days of early voting were too costly and distracting for election organizers.  <paragraph>  However, the Miami-Dade office closed its doors around 2 P.M., saying the staff and equipment were overwhelmed by demand,  <hyperlink> the Miami Herald reported. The office reopened later in the afternoon, but the closure angered about 180 potential voters who were locked out, the newspaper said. The Herald later reported that the interruption was due in part to objections from Miami Mayor Carlos Gimenez, who said he'd not been consulted about the change.  <paragraph>  Florida has fairly liberal absentee ballot rules, allowing absentee ballots to be issued to anyone who says he or she can't make it to the polls on Election Day. So, in-person absentee voting is more or less the same as early voting. However, early voting in Florida usually takes place at numerous sites across a county, while in-person absentee is conducted at permanent election offices and sometimes satellite locations.  <paragraph>  "The Elections Department took on this effort to continue serving our voters on the final Sunday before Election Day. While state law does not permit Early Voting today, we do have the authority to provide and accept absentee ballots," Miami-Dade Deputy Supervisor of Elections Christina White told POLITICO via e-mail. Dade County submitted   <hyperlink> this response to the federal lawsuit, calling it moot with respect to their county.  <paragraph>  Palm Beach County Supervisor of Elections Susan Bucher told POLITICO Sunday afternoon that her office was also allowing in-person voting after experiencing huge demand for the early voting session Saturday.  <paragraph>  "I was here when we were letting our last voter in at 2:30 in the morning," Bucher said. "This morning at 7:30 A.M., we had people waiting so we decided to let them vote in-person, absenteee. We have discretion under Florida law. So we opened up at 9:30 A.M. There's a line wrapped around the building and we're letting them vote."  <paragraph>  Bucher said anyone who's in line at her office by 5 P.M. Sunday will be permitted to vote.  <paragraph>  Broward County was also allowing some in-person absentee voting Sunday, but voters who'd made appointments were being given priority,  <hyperlink> the Herald said.  <paragraph>  All three counties also plan to allow in-person absentee voting on Monday and Tuesday.  <paragraph>  "With unprecedented turnout in South Florida, it is still our hope that the court will extend the early voting hours so that every eligible voter has a chance to vote," Florida Democratic Party executive director Scott Arceneaux said in a statement.  <paragraph>  Voters in Orange County, which includes and surrounds Orlando, will also get another chance at early voting Sunday after a suspicious package closed a polling site in Winter Park, Fla. for several hours Saturday. A local judge ordered that polling place to be open again Sunday.  <paragraph>  UPDATE (Sunday, 4:00 P.M.): This post has been updated with comments from Bucher and with the Herald's reports of an interruption to voting at the Miami-Dade election headquarters.  <paragraph>  UPDATE 2 (Sunday, 10:17 P.M.): This post has been updated with the Herald's report on Gimenez's role in Sunday's events.