Seattle Times Co. buys full-page campaign ad | The Seattle Times Co. purchased a full-page ad in Wednesday’s newspaper supporting Republican gubernatorial candidate Rob McKenna. <paragraph>  The ad is part of an independent-expenditure campaign with no coordination between the paper and the campaign, according to a statement from The Seattle Times. The ad appears on page B6 and says McKenna is a “choice that will make us all proud” and praises the candidate’s time as Washington state’s attorney general. The advertisement states that “no candidate authorized this ad. It is paid for by The Seattle Times Company.” <paragraph>  The point of the ad, according to the company's press release? It's all part of an attempt to convince political campaigns of just how valuable advertising in The Times could be. <paragraph>  “In recent years, political consultants have not been placing many campaign ads in The Seattle Times, and we think they’re missing out on the most effective way to reach voters in the Puget Sound region,” said Alan Fisco, executive vice president, revenue and new products for The Seattle Times said in a statement.  “We decided to try to tap into this important source of advertising revenue by demonstrating how effective advertising with The Times can be.” <paragraph>  The company will also run a similar campaign supporting Referendum 74, which would legalize same-sex marriage. Fisco said that the two campaigns are a "a business decision that is completely separate from journalism functions of the newspaper. The ads will be clearly identified as ads and there is no intersection between the advertising and our editorial commentary or news reporting." <paragraph>   Seattle Times executive editor David Boardman told The Seattle Times’ Jim Brunner in an email that “the News Department was not part of the discussion or the decision to do this," according to Brunner's blog post. <paragraph>  The press release states that "in formulating the advertising initiative, The Times decided to feature one statewide candidate and one statewide issue for which polling showed to be fairly close races" and the races were chosen because the Times had editorialized in support of each one. <paragraph> Jay Inslee spokesperson Sterling Clifford blasted the decision to run the ad, telling POLITICO that “all Washingtonians should be disappointed that the state's largest newspaper has chosen to sacrifice its credibility as an independent news source.” <paragraph>  McKenna’s campaign has yet to return a request for comment. <paragraph> The Seattle Times editorial board endorsed McKenna <hyperlink>  and the same-sex marriage referendum.  UPDATE (4:20 p.m.) <paragraph>   The Seattle Times' spokesperson Jill Mackie told POLITICO that the paper's "editorial page editor and executive (news) editor were briefed as a heads up on the concept after the decision to proceed was made." <paragraph>  The McKenna ad "effort is scheduled to run at a value of just over $75,000 between today and the election. A similar value in in-kind space will be donated to the R74 (Marriage Equality) campaign," Mackie wrote in an e-mail.   