MSNBC weighs in on Karl Rove | <video>  MSNBC has weighed in on Karl Rove’s spat with Fox News co-hosts <hyperlink> over the network's decision to call Ohio for President Obama. <paragraph> MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow said Rove “is describing this as being just like 2000 and it is not over.” <paragraph> “I don’t mean to cross-advertise here, but on the conservative cable news network Fox News Channel – Fox News Channel called Ohio for Obama, but the on-air talent at Fox News Channel is refusing to concede that they believe it," she said. <paragraph> “Can you define that word ‘talent’ for the people who are not in this industry,” MSNBC's Chris Matthews jumped in. “They happen to have positions. It doesn’t say anything about their quality.” <paragraph> “People who are wearing makeup and have cameras pointed at them,” Maddow replied. "It's not everybody who's on Fox News tonight, but some of the people who Fox is putting on tonight are refusing to believe their own network’s call in the state of Ohio." <paragraph> Maddow added that Rove “is now trying to get on air the Fox News Channel to rescind its call in Ohio in favor of the candidate that he has bankrolled to the tune of hundreds of millions of dollars. This is a remarkable thing.” <paragraph> NBC’s Chuck Todd called Rove’s reaction part of what will likely be seen from many Republicans — “it’s more than just a feeling of grief that they lost, they don’t believe it,” he said. <paragraph> “This goes to the larger point that I’ve been trying to make that there is going to be a big chunk of one of the two sides that was not going to believe they lost – it’s more than just a feeling of grief that they lost, they don’t believe it,” Todd said on MSNBC. “And I think you’re going to have a large chunk of the Republican base that doesn’t understand it. They’ve been told that the polls were skewed for week. They’ve been told for weeks there was something wrong with the polling and there was something wrong here and so that just makes it more difficult to govern. Let’s not pretend that it doesn’t.” <paragraph> Maddow also said Rove’s challenge is indicative of something that is happening on the right: “questioning what used to be basic agreed upon data.” <paragraph> “It’s worth looking at close races and I do not begrudge the Romney campaign for saying that they’ve got issues with what’s gone on with Ohio,” Maddow said. “But to decide that a result isn’t a result as long as you don’t like the outcome is something that means that we cannot work together as a country anymore. And we can’t go down this road very much further.” <paragraph> 